11189812 TATA-A-OWNER’S MANUAL Cover page 440 mm X 145 mm TATA MOTORS> *Gapnecting Aspirations Call us:1-800-209-7979 Mail us: customercare@tatamotors.com Visit us: service.tatamotors.com 5442 5840 9901 Developed by: Technical Literature Cell,ERC.  iy TATA OWNER’S MANUAL TATA MOTORS  CUSTOMER ASSISTANCE In our constant endeavour to provide assistance and complete service backup, TATA MOTORS has established an all India cus- tomer assistance centre. In case you have a query regarding any aspect of your vehicle, our Customer Assistance Centre will be glad to assist you on our Toll Free no. 1800 209 7979 la’ &) 24x7 ‘ON-ROAD ASSISTANCE 1800 208 7979 oo) DOORSTEP SERVICE MosILe senvice QUALITY SERVICE Seissunance 10 SPEED-0-SERVICE ORIGINAL PARTS UNMATCHED QUALITY You can also approach nearest TATA MOTORS dealer. A sepa- rate Dealer network address booklet is provided with the Owner’s manual. TATA MOTORS’ 24xX7 Roadside Assistance Program offers tech- nical help in the event of a

manual. TATA MOTORS’ 24xX7 Roadside Assistance Program offers tech- nical help in the event of a breakdown. Call the toll-free road- side assistance helpline number. For additional information, refer to "24X7 Roadside Assis- tance" section in the Owner’s manual. REFINISHING SOLUTIONS. BODY & PAINT ONLINE SERVICE APPOINT MEST ATA CLICK QUICK REPAIR REPAIR De MINUTES EXTENDED WARRANTY UP 10 4 YEARS VALUE CARE MAINTENANCE PLANS RAPID REPAIR MINOR BODY REPAIRS  Dear Customer, Welcome to the TATA MOTORS family. We congratulate you on the purchase of your new vehicle and we are privileged to have you as our valued customer. We urge you to read this Owner's Manual carefully and familiarize yourself with the equipment descriptions and operating instruc- tions before driving. Always carry out prescribed service/maintenance work as well as any required repairs at an authorized TATA MOTORS Dealers or Authorized Service Centre’s (TASCs). Use only genuine parts for continued reliability, safety

or Authorized Service Centre’s (TASCs). Use only genuine parts for continued reliability, safety and performance of your vehicle. You are welcome to contact our dealer or Customer Assistance toll free no. (1800 209 7979) in case of any query or support required. We wish you a safe and pleasant driving experience. TATA MOTORS Bombay House, 24, Homi Modi Street, Hutatma Chowk, Fort, Mumbai - 400001  IMPORTANT INFORMATION Before driving, read this owner’s manual carefully and familiarize yourself with your vehicle. For your own safety and a longer vehicle life, follow the instructions, ‘Warnings’ and ‘Notes’ in this manual. Ignoring them could result in damage to the vehicle or personal injury to you or others. The owner’s manual and other booklets are important documents and should always be kept in the vehicle. If you sell the vehicle, always pass on the documents to the new owner. This owner's manual describes all variants of the model and all standard/optional equipment of your

This owner's manual describes all variants of the model and all standard/optional equipment of your vehicle available at the time of printing. Please note that your vehicle may not be equipped with all features described. TATA MOTORS Limited reserves the right to introduce changes in the design, equipment and technical features without any obligation to install them on the vehicles previously sold. The equipment in your vehicle may therefore differ from that shown in the descriptions and illustrations. Do not carry out any modification including fitment of non-genuine accessories on your vehicle. Safety, handling, performance and durability, may otherwise be adversely affected and may violate government regulations. TATA MOTORS Limited accepts no liability for damage resulting from the modifications or use of non-genuine accessories. All rights reserved. The information in this manual shall not be copied, translated or otherwise reproduced, in whole or in part, without written

shall not be copied, translated or otherwise reproduced, in whole or in part, without written permission from TATA MOTORS. © Copyright 2020 TATA MOTORS  CONTENTS [a Safety | Opening & Closing [<] Dashboard & Features Important Information Keys Cockpit Safe Driving 01 Doors 26 Instrument Cluster (for TFT) 36 Seat Belts 04 Windows 29 Driver Information System 39 Child Restraint System (CRS) 08 Opening the Bonnet 31 Display Messages 46 Supplementary Restraint Tail gate opening 32 Instrument Cluster (for LCD) 51 System (SRS) (Airbags) 12 Fuel lid 34 Driver Information System 54 Child Lock 18 Display Messages 60 Anti-theft Device: Immobilizer 19 Tell Tales 62 ABS 20 Audio Reminders 70 EBD 21 Combi Switches 71 Dashboard Controls 75  CONTENTS [s) Dashboard & Features (a Dashboard & Features | 4 | Stowage Areas Steering mounted control Side Indicator Lamp Storage Compartments Mic 78 Front Lamp 83 Glove Box 86 Infotainment System Display 79 Tail Lamp 83 Driver side coin box 87 Speakers &

Lamp 83 Glove Box 86 Infotainment System Display 79 Tail Lamp 83 Driver side coin box 87 Speakers & Tweeter 79 Ambient Lights 84 Utility pockets on front doors 87 USB Port 79 Utility pockets on rear doors 87 Power Socket 80 Center Console 88 Antenna 80 Stowage for rear passenger 88 Roof Grab Handles 81 Tailgate compartment 89 Roof Lamp 81 Goggle stowage 89 Boot Lamp 82 Hooks 90 vi  Air Distribution Air Vents Rear AC Vents HVAC Controls Functions & Settings Fully Automatic temperature Control HVAC sensors Functions & Settings FATC adjusted by Infotainment System 92 92 93 96 97 101 102 104 Pre-Driving Checks Driving Tips Seat Adjustments Rear View Mirrors Sun Visors EPAS Steering wheels adjustment Steering lock and ignition switch Starting and stopping (without PEPS) Starting and stopping (PEPS) 106 109 112 114 115 116 117 118 Gear Shifting Driving Braking Drive Mode Idle Stop Start Parking Brake Vehicle parking Reverse Park Assist Rear View Camera CONTENTS rs | Climate Control | 6 |

Brake Vehicle parking Reverse Park Assist Rear View Camera CONTENTS rs | Climate Control | 6 | Starting & Driving | 6 | Starting & Driving 125 126 127 128 133 134 135 137 vii  CONTENTS Emergency & Break- u down Assistance Emergency Equipment 143 Hazard Warning Switch 144 Changing flat tyre 146 Jump starting your car 149 Towing 151 Fuses 153 Bulb Specification 161 Head lamp bulb replacement 162 24x7 Road Side Assistance 163 viii | 8 | Maintenance | 3 | Technical Information Maintenance & Service Engine Compartment 168 Engine Oil 170 Battery 174 Spark Plug 175 Tyres 175 Smart key Battery replacement 179 Wearable key battery replacement 179 On Board Diagnostic II (OBD Il) 180 Service Schedule 182 Parking for Long Durations 187 Fuel Specification Lubricant Specification 190 Technical Specification 191 Vehicle Dimensions 194 Aggregate Identification Nos 195  Car Care and Value Added Services Car Care Washing Waxing Polishing Interior Fabric Cleaning Paint Care Value care - AMC Extended

Car Care Washing Waxing Polishing Interior Fabric Cleaning Paint Care Value care - AMC Extended warranty Value Added Services 197 197 198 198 198 199 200 204 206 CONTENTS Warranty — Terms and Environment Safety Conditions Environment Safety 213 Warranty — Terms & Conditions 211   Important Information In this Owner's Manual, you will find the text under the heading “WARNING” and “NOTE” which highlights important infor- mation. Pay particular attention to these highlighted messages. NOTE Indicates additional information that will assist you in gaining the optimum benefit and care for your vehicle. Indicates procedures or _ infor- mation that must be followed pre- cisely in order to avoid the possibil- ity of severe personal injury and se- rious damage to the vehicle. Safe Driving Safety consciousness not only ensures your safety and the safety of other road users, but it also helps to reduce the wear and tear on your vehicle. Safe driving depends on: e How quickly you make decisions to

the wear and tear on your vehicle. Safe driving depends on: e How quickly you make decisions to avoid an accident. e Your ability to concentrate. e How well you can see and judge ob- jects. e How well familiar you are with your vehicle controls and its capabilities. NOTE Fatigue is a result of physical or mental exertion that impairs judg- ment. Driver fatigue may be due to inadequate sleep, extended work hours, strenuous work or non-work activities or combination of other factors. Take rest at regular inter- vals. SAFETY Safety Tips e Always take into account the road conditions, weather conditions, vehi- cle speed in order to prevent acci- dents. e Turn ‘ON’ the side indicators at least 30 meters before taking a turn or changing the lane. e Decelerate to a safe speed before taking turn. Do not apply brakes dur- ing cornering. e When overtaking other vehicles, watch out for the oncoming vehicle. Never drive under the influence of al- cohol or drugs. e If your vehicle is equipped with

vehicle. Never drive under the influence of al- cohol or drugs. e If your vehicle is equipped with info- tainment/navigation system, set and make changes to your travel route only when the vehicle is parked. e Program radio presets with the vehi- cle parked, and use your pro- grammed presets to make radio use quicker and simpler.  SAFETY Driving through water Do not drive through flooded areas. Judge the depth of water before driving through it. Otherwise, water may enter the vehicle interior or the engine com- partment. If at all the situation demands that you have to drive through water then; e Keep engine in higher RPM and crawl the vehicle in low gear. e Flowing or rushing water creates strong forces. Driving through flow- ing water could cause the vehicle to about trying to drive through flowing water. e Lightly apply the brake pedal to dry the liners until the brakes work nor- mally once you are out of water. Do not attempt to start the engine if vehicle gets flooded due to wa-

once you are out of water. Do not attempt to start the engine if vehicle gets flooded due to wa- ter. Tow the vehicle to a safe place. Contact a nearest TATA MOTORS Authorised Service Centre Driving on a rainy day Check wiper blades, lights and brakes for proper functioning and condition. Check the tyre treads depth, the con- dition of the tread and tyre. Avoid harsh braking and sharp turns. It may cause loss of control and lead toa skid. For slowing down, shift to lower gears and brake gently. Keep lights ‘ON’ if visibility is poor. Driving on wet roads On wet road or during light showers, “Aq- uaplaning” can occur. “Aquaplaning” is the loss of direct contact between the road surface and the vehicle’s tires due to a water film forming between them. Steering or braking the vehicle can be very difficult, and loss of control can oc- cur. There is no hard and fast rule about aq- uaplaning. The best advice is to slow down when the road is wet. If you have driven for a long time in heavy

The best advice is to slow down when the road is wet. If you have driven for a long time in heavy rain without braking, there may be a delayed reaction from the brakes when braking for the first time. You have to press the brake pedal more firmly. Maintain a greater distance from the vehicle in front.  Night driving Ensure that all lights are working and windshield, window glasses are clean. Drive more slowly at night than in the daytime, as the visual range is re- stricted at night. Maintain a speed such that you can stop within illumi- nated distance of head lamps. Do not use the high beam unless in- evitable. It may dazzle the driver of the oncoming vehicle, thus causing an accident. Use head lamp main/dip beam to alert other road users on turns/ cross roads etc. Use side indicators for lane change or turning. Driving on gradients When climbing gradient, the vehicle may begin to slow down and show a lack of power. If this happens, shift to a lower gear and apply power smoothly so

down and show a lack of power. If this happens, shift to a lower gear and apply power smoothly so that there is no loss of traction. When driving down a hill, the engine braking should be used by shifting into a lower gear. Do not drive in neutral gear or switch off the engine. On long and steep gradients you must reduce the load on the brakes by shifting early to a lower gear. This allows you to take ad- vantage of the engine braking ef- fect and helps avoid overheating of service brakes resulting in reduced braking efficiency. SAFETY Driving on highway Stopping distance progressively, in- creases with vehicle speed. Maintain a sufficient distance between your vehicle and the vehicle ahead. For long distance driving, perform safety checks before starting a trip and take rest at certain intervals to prevent fa- tigue.  SAFETY Seat Belts This section of user manual describes your vehicle’s seat belt, airbag and Child restraints system. Please read and fol- low all these instructions

seat belt, airbag and Child restraints system. Please read and fol- low all these instructions carefully to minimise risk of severe injury or death. e Seat belts are the primary restraints system in the vehicle. All occupants, including the driver, should always wear their seat belts to minimize the risk of injury. e Sit back and adjust the front seat. Make sure that your seat is adjusted to a good driving position and the back of the seat is upright. Buckling the Shoulder Seatbelt e Grasp the tongue then slowly pull out the seat belt over the shoulder and across the chest. When the seat belt is long enough to fit, insert the tongue into the lock buckle until you hear a “CLICK” which indicates that the seat belt is securely locked. e Position the lap portion of seat belt across your thighs, below your abdo- men. To remove slack, pull up a bit on the shoulder seat belt. To loosen the lap portion seat belt if it is too tight, tilt the tongue and pull on the lap seat belt. A snug seat

portion seat belt if it is too tight, tilt the tongue and pull on the lap seat belt. A snug seat belt re- duces the risk of sliding under the seat belt in a collision. Ensure that the seat belt running over the body (shoulder segment and lap segment) does not have any twist. Twisted seat belt may not offer effective protec- tion when required. Releasing the seat belt To release the seat belt, push the red button on the lock buckle. The seat belt will automatically retract to its stowed position. If necessary, slide the tongue down the webbing to allow the seat belt to retract fully. Fixed rear centre lap seat belt e When buckling, make sure you hear a click confirming that the tab is latched into the seat belt lock. To tighten it, pull the loose end through the buckle until the seat belt is com- fortably adjusted around the hips. The above image is for reference purpose only.  Seat belt height adjustments (If applicable) If height adjustment is provided in the seat belt, occupant can

height adjustments (If applicable) If height adjustment is provided in the seat belt, occupant can adjust it to their comfort, as may be applicable. NOTE The above image is for reference purpose only. WARNING Each seating position and seat belt assembly must only be used by one occupant. It is not recommended to put a seat belt around a child, being carried on an occupant's lap. Be careful not to damage or camper the seat belt webbing or hardware. Inspect the seat belt system periodically, checking for cuts, frays, or loose parts. A rayed or torn seat belt could rip apart in a collision and leave you with no protection. f the seat belt webbing or hardware is damaged, get it replaced immediately at TATA Motors Authorized service centre. Do not insert any items such as coins, clips, etc. into the seat belt buckles, and be careful not to spill liquids into these parts. If foreign materials get into a seat SAFETY belt buckle, the seat belt will not work properly. Do not wear seat belts

get into a seat SAFETY belt buckle, the seat belt will not work properly. Do not wear seat belts over hard, sharp or fragile items in clothing, such as pens, keys, spectacles etc. Do not use any accessories on seat belts or modify in any way the seat belt system. Devices claiming to improve occupant comfort or reposition the seat belt can reduce the protection provided by the seat belt and increase the chance of serious injury in a collision.  SAFETY Seat Belts with Pre — tensioner (if equipped) You can use the pre-tensioner seat belts in the same manner as ordinary seat belts . The seat belt pre-tensioner system works in conjunction with the SUPPLEMENTARY RESTRAINTS SYSTEM (SRS-Airbags). In the event of a collision, as may be necessary, pre-tensioner tightens the seat belt so that it fits the occupant’s body more snugly. When pre-tensioner activates, there could be some noise and release of smoke. This is normal and there are no health hazards or fire risk. In a collision, the

release of smoke. This is normal and there are no health hazards or fire risk. In a collision, the pre-tensioner seat belt assembly mechanisms becomes hot during activation. Do not touch the pre-tensioner seat belt assemblies for several minutes after they have been activated. If the vehicle has been involved in a collision, get it inspected immediately at authorised TATA MOTORS SERVICE Center. Seat Belt with Load Limiter (if equipped) You can use the load limiter seat belts in the same manner as ordinary seat belts. The seat belt load limiter system works in conjunction with the SUPPLEMEN- TARY RESTRAINTS SYSTEM (SRS-Air- bags). In the event of a collision, as may be nec- essary, load limiter reduces the load on the rib cage region of the occupant. If the vehicle has been involved in a col- lision, get it inspected immediately at Au- thorised TATA MOTORS SERVICE Center. Use of seat belts for pregnant woman e Pregnant woman must wear a correctly positioned seat belt. It is safer for

for pregnant woman e Pregnant woman must wear a correctly positioned seat belt. It is safer for mother as well as unborn child. e Pregnant woman should wear the lap part of the seat belt across the thighs and as snug across the hips as possible. Keep the seat belt low so that it does not come across the abdomen. That way the strong bones of the hips will take the force if there is a collision.  Seat belt Warning Lamp a For Driver For Front seat passenger The seat belt warning lamp reminds you to fasten the seat belt. If the driver does not fasten seat belt, seat belt reminder lamp will blink and a buzzer will sound for pre- lefined duration until the drivers seat belt is buckled. If front passenger seat is occupied by adult and does not fasten seat belt, seat belt reminder lamp will blink and a buzzer will sound for pre- lefined duration until the front passenger seat belt is buckled. If this system is also provided for other than Front row seats, applicable above warning will appear

this system is also provided for other than Front row seats, applicable above warning will appear until seat belts are buckled. If front passenger seat is occupied by child, system may detect occupancy and warn with front passenger seat belt warning. It is not taken to mean child can occupy front passenger seat and use seat belt. Please refer CRS section for recommended seating position. NOTE Using unauthorized after-market seat cover may affect function of occupant sensor. TATA MOTORS does not recommended any non- validated seat cover on seats. SAFETY  SAFETY Child Restraint System (CRS) TATA MOTORS strongly recommends the use of Child Restraint Systems (CRS) for all children up to age of 12 years and to be placed at recommended positions only. Children travelling without recom- mended CRS and seated at other posi- tions may face serious injuries in case of a collision. CRS can be installed in the vehicle using seat belts and/or ISOFIX only (if equipped) or ISOFIX with Top Tether (if

in the vehicle using seat belts and/or ISOFIX only (if equipped) or ISOFIX with Top Tether (if equipped). The harness system of CRS holds the child in place, and in a collision, acts to keep the child positioned in the seat and reduce the risk of injuries. All children below age of one year must always ride in a rear-facing infant CRS. Keep children in a forward-facing CRS with a harness until they reach the size or weight limit allowed by your CRS man- ufacturer. 8 Once your child outgrows the forward- acing CRS, your child is ready for a booster seat. Selection and installation of CRS: Always select the CRS that complies with latest safety standards (AISO72 / ECE R44). The CRS are classified according 0 the child's size, height and weight. Select the appropriate CRS for your child. Ensure that the child fits properly in the CRS and it is securely installed in he vehicle. For installation, please refer CRS manufacturer’s instruction manual WN ISOfix Hooks Fey The above images are for

please refer CRS manufacturer’s instruction manual WN ISOfix Hooks Fey The above images are for refer- ence purpose only.  Recommended CRS position as per the vehicle matrix The suitability of seat position for car- riage of children and recommended category of CRS is shown in the table below as per the child group. X - Seat Position not suitable for children in this age group. U - Suitable for “universal” category restraints approved for use in this age group. Universal is a category in the AISO72 / ECE R44 norm. lf a child is seated in the front seat it may cause serious injury or even death during any collision. SAFETY Front Rear Rear R ron ear Mass Group | Age Group Outboard | Outboard Passenger RH Center LH 0 Up to 10 kg | Up to 9 months xX U U x Up to 24 O+ Up to 13 kg months x U U x 9 months Sto 18kg to 48 months x U U x Ul 15 to 25kg | Approx. 3 to7 x U U Xx years ll 22 to 36 kg Approx. 6 to 12 x U U x years  SAFETY If your vehicle is equipped with a front passenger Airbag

kg Approx. 6 to 12 x U U x years  SAFETY If your vehicle is equipped with a front passenger Airbag (PAB) and does not have PAB deactivation switch, do not install a rear-facing CRS in the front passenger seat. If the PAB inflates, a child in a rear facing CRS could be seriously injured or killed. If you install a CRS in the rear seat, slide the front seat far enough forward so that the child’s feet do not touch the front seatback. This will help avoid injury to the child in the event of a collision. NOTE Children could be endangered ina collision if their CRS is not properly secured in the vehicle. Be sure to secure the child in the restraint system according to the manufacturer's instructions. 10 Do not use an infant carrier or a child safety seat that "hooks“ over a seatback, it will not provide adequate protection in a collision. After a collision, we recommend to get seat belts, seats, ISOFIX and top-tether anchorages (as may be applicable) investigated at TATA MOTORS Authorised

ISOFIX and top-tether anchorages (as may be applicable) investigated at TATA MOTORS Authorised service centre. NOTE A CRS in a closed vehicle can become very hot. To prevent burns, check the seating surface and buckles before placing your child in CRS. e Donot leave unattended children in your vehicle. e Do not modify CRS in any way. NOTE e Do not install a booster seat or a booster cushion with only the lap strap of the seat belt. e Do not install a booster seat or a booster cushion with a seat belt that is slack or twisted. e Do not put the safety seat belt under your child’s arm or behind its back. e Do not use pillows, books or towels to boost your child’s height. e Make sure that your children sit in an upright position. e Do not allow children to stand up or kneel on either the rear or the front seats. An unrestrained child could suffer serious or fatal injuries during a collision. e Do not leave any toys or other objects loose in the CRS or on the seat while the vehicle is in

e Do not leave any toys or other objects loose in the CRS or on the seat while the vehicle is in motion.  Each CRS should be used for one child only. If the airbag SRS warning indicator in the instrument cluster illuminates continuously, it means that there is malfunction in the system. Remove the CRS from front passenger seat and contact your TATA MOTORS authorised service center. The above images are for reference purpose only. 11  SAFETY Supplementary Restraint System (SRS) (Airbags) (if equipped) The airbag ‘SRS’ system comprises of the following components depending upon the provided safety features in your vehicle. e Seat belt Pre-tensioners e Seat belt with load limiters e Driver Airbag e Front Passenger Airbag e Airbag ‘SRS’ ECU Control Unit) ¢ Collision Sensors e SRS wiring harness e SRS Warning lamp The System is active when ignition switch is in the “ON” position or the ignition mode is “ON”. Airbags are designed to inflate in collisions when required. In the event of a

mode is “ON”. Airbags are designed to inflate in collisions when required. In the event of a collision, the collision sensors will detect signals, and if the Airbag ECU judges that the signals represent a severe collision, will trigger the airbags. The inflated Airbags provide a cushion to 12 (Electronic the occupants. The Airbag inflates and deflates so quickly that you may not even realize that it has activated. The Airbag will neither hinder your view nor make it harder to exit the vehicle. Airbag inflation is virtually instantaneous and occurs with considerable force, accompanied by loud noise and smoke, which is normal. The inflated airbag, together with seat belts, limit the movement of an occupant, thereby reducing the risk of injury. When an airbag inflates, you may see some smoke-like particles. The particles are a normal by-product of the process that generates the non-toxic gas used for airbag inflation. These airborne particles may irritate the skin, eyes, nose, or throat.

used for airbag inflation. These airborne particles may irritate the skin, eyes, nose, or throat. If you have skin or eye irritation, rinse the area with water. For nose or throat irritation, move to fresh air. Also sometimes the smoke can cause breathing problems. In such cases, it is recommended to get fresh air promptly. After inflation, airbag provides a gradual cushioning effect for the occupant thereafter deflates. It is not advisable to drive your vehicle after the airbags have been deployed. If you are involved in another collision, the airbags will not be in place to protect you. NOTE The above image is for reference purpose only. NOTE e Open your windows and doors as soon as possible after collision to reduce prolonged exposure to the smoke and powder released by the inflating Airbag.  SAFETY e Do not touch the Airbag container’s internal components immediately after an Airbag has inflated. The parts that come into contact with an inflating Airbag may be very hot. e Always

has inflated. The parts that come into contact with an inflating Airbag may be very hot. e Always wash exposed skin areas thoroughly with lukewarm water and mild soap. The driver airbag is mounted in the centre of the steering wheel. The front passenger airbag is located inside the dashboard in front of the passenger seat. The vehicle fitted with the airbags have suitable indications on steering wheel and on dash board. The word ‘AIRBAG’ is embossed on the airbag covers. e Even in vehicles with Airbags, you and your passengers must always wear the seat belts provided. In order to minimize the risk and severity of injury in the event of a collision. ALWAYS use seat belts and CRS - during every trip and at all times. Even with airbags, you can be seriously injured or killed in a collision if you are not wearing seat belt properly or not wearing seat belt when airbag inflates. You and your passengers should never sit or lean unnecessarily close to the Airbags. Move your seat as far back

passengers should never sit or lean unnecessarily close to the Airbags. Move your seat as far back as possible from front Airbags, while still maintaining control of the vehicle. All occupants should sit upright with the seatback in an upright position, centred on the seat cushion with their seat belt on, legs comfortably extended and heir feet on the floor until the vehicle is parked and the engine is turned off. If an occupant is out of position during collision, the rapidly deploying Airbag may forcefully contact the occupant causing serious or fatal injuries. e Do not allow the front passenger to place their feet or legs on the dashboard. Not recommended seating position The above image is for reference purpose only. 13   NOTE The above images are for refer- ence purpose only. Never place your arm over the airbag as a deploying airbag can result in serious arm fractures or other injuries. Do not place or stick any item/s in the vehicle, except at designated locations (such as

injuries. Do not place or stick any item/s in the vehicle, except at designated locations (such as utility bins, cup/bottle holders, Boot space etc). Loose items may act as a projectile during a collision and cause severe to fatal injuries. Please be aware that any unsecured item in your vehicle, such as your pet, unsecured CRS or a laptop, can become a potential hazard in the event of a collision or sudden stop, causing injuries to occupants in the vehicle. Coat hooks (if provided) , must be used only for that purpose. Never hang heavy items on to those hooks. This may lead to severe to fatal injuries. ALWAYS contact your TATA MOTORS authorised _ service centre if the vehicle is damaged, even if airbag has not inflated. ALWAYS contact your TATA MOTORS authorised _ service centre if any part of an airbag module cover shows sign of cracking or damage. SAFETY If your SRS malfunctions, the Airbag may not inflate properly during a colli- sion thereby increasing risk of serious injury or

Airbag may not inflate properly during a colli- sion thereby increasing risk of serious injury or death. If any of the following conditions occur, your SRS is mal- functioning: The SRS warning lamp does not turn ‘ON’ when the ignition switch is placed in the ‘ON’ position for few seconds. The SRS warning lamp stays ‘ON’ after illuminating The SRS warning lamp comes ‘ON’/stays ‘ON’ while the vehicle is in motion. The SRS warning lamp blinks when the engine is running. We recommend the customer to im- mediately visit TATA MOTORS author- ised service centre and get the SRS system inspected if any of the above conditions occur. 15  SAFETY Please refer CRS section for recom- mended seating position. HE © Airbag Warning sticker on front passenger Sun visor 16 Never make any modifications to your vehicle. The modifications carried out, but not limited to the vehicle frame, bumpers, front fenders, ride height, suspension, seat belts, interior trims, steering wheel (especially holders), are

ride height, suspension, seat belts, interior trims, steering wheel (especially holders), are not acceptable. This will affect the intended performance of SRS system. Fitment of bull bars is strictly prohibited, unless authorised by TATA MOTORS. This will affect the intended performance of SRS system. If you need to make any modifications to accommodate any disability you may have, please contact your Authorized TATA MOTORS Dealer _ for necessary guidance. Do not tamper with SRS in any way. This will lead to unexpected performance of system and may cause serious injury or death. The Airbag Warning Symbol on sun visor reminds extreme hazards associate with the use of rearward-facing child re- straint on front passenger seat during airbag deployment. It is not taken to mean child can occupy front passenger seat and use seat belt. Never use a rearward facing child restraint on a seat protected by an active Airbag in front of it, Death or serious injury to the child can oc- cur.  AIRBAGS

by an active Airbag in front of it, Death or serious injury to the child can oc- cur.  AIRBAGS Deployment Condi- tions (if equipped) When front airbags should not de- ploy? Minor frontal collision: Seat belt of- fers adequate occupant protection in low severity collisions. The airbags are triggered only when there is a collision severe enough to trigger the airbags. De- ployment of frontal airbags is not benefi- cial in low severity collisions. Side collision: During a side collision, occupants tend to move sideways. Therefore, deploying frontal airbags in such situations will not benefit the occu- pants. Rear collision: During a rear collision, occupants tend to move (rearwards) away from frontal airbags. Therefore, de- ploying frontal airbags in such situations will not benefit the occupant protection. Head restraints and seat belts provide occupant protection during a rear colli- sion. Rollovers collision: During a rollover collision, unbelted occupants may float inside the

sion. Rollovers collision: During a rollover collision, unbelted occupants may float inside the passenger compartment. This will increase the risk of injuries. Wearing seat belts provide highly effective occu- pant protection during rollover collision. Front airbags are not designed to deploy in a rollover as frontal airbags cannot of- fer any protection in rollover collision. When front airbags deploy with mi- nor or no visible vehicle damage? The airbags are triggered only when there is a collision severe enough to trig- ger the airbags. A severe collision to the vehicle underbody or suspension may cause airbags deployment. Examples in- clude rough road driving, running into a curb or other low fixed object that causes a sudden vehicle deceleration. Since the collision is underneath the ve- hicle, damage may not be readily visible. SAFETY When front airbags not deploy, even with exterior visible vehicle damage? The airbags are triggered only when there is a collision severe enough

visible vehicle damage? The airbags are triggered only when there is a collision severe enough to trig- ger the airbags. The amount of visible ve- hicle damage is not always the correct indicator for airbag deployment. Some collisions can result in visible damage but no airbag deployment because the airbags would not have been needed or would not have provided protection even if they had deployed. 17  SAFETY Child Lock (if equipped) e Lift the lock lever upward to deactivate the childproof lock when not required. e Child safety lever to be used for safety of child for preventing them to open rear door while seating in passenger seat to avoid accident while vehicle is running. Both the rear doors of the vehicle are provided with a child proof lock. Push the lock lever located on vertical face of the door downward before closing the door. The door which has been locked by acti- vating the child lock cannot be opened from inside, it can be opened only from the outside. 18  SAFETY

the child lock cannot be opened from inside, it can be opened only from the outside. 18  SAFETY Anti-Theft Device-Immobilizer/ PEPS NOTE Immobilizer system is designed to pre- Use only Flip key, the other should vent vehicle theft by electronically disa- be kept in a safe location. Note bling the engine ignition system. The en- down “key Tag no.” information gine can be started only with vehicle’s (and keep it safe) which is required original Immobilizer ignition key which while getting new/spare keys. Re- has an electronic identification pro- member that it is not possible to grammed code. prepare new/spare keys without the “key Tag number.” Take pre- caution about Flip key, as without Flip key vehicle cannot be started. I bili: Vehicle Co) Lamp ae Vehicle State Meaning / Function of the state Ignition OFF Blinking Locked Vehicle Immobilized and awaiting electronic key Ignition ON OFF Unlocked Normal condition and ready to start the vehicle - Problem with key (Wrong key used to start

Normal condition and ready to start the vehicle - Problem with key (Wrong key used to start vehicle) Ignition ON ON Locked - Problem with Immobilizer system. Contact a TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre Ignition ON Blinking Unlocked - Contact a TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre immediately. 19  SAFETY Anti-lock braking system (ABS) ABS regulates brake pres- sure in such a way that the wheels do not lock when ( ) you brake. This allows you to continue steering the vehicle when braking. The ABS warning lamp in the instrument cluster lights up when the ignition is switched on. It goes out when the engine is running. } WARNING e lf ABS is faulty, the wheels could lock when braking. The steer abil- ity and braking characteristics may be severely impaired. There is an increased danger of skid- ding and accidents. e Drive on carefully. Have ABS checked immediately at a TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Cen- tre as soon as possible. 20 While Braking > If ABS intervenes: continue to press

Service Cen- tre as soon as possible. 20 While Braking > If ABS intervenes: continue to press the brake pedal vigorously until the braking situation is over. > To make a full brake application: press the brake pedal with full force. If ABS intervenes when braking, you will feel a pulsing in the brake pedal. The pul- sating brake pedal can be an indication of hazardous road conditions, and func- tions as a reminder to take extra care while driving. e The stopping distance required for vehicles with ABS may be slightly more than conventional brake system but ABS will still of- fer the advantage of helping you maintain directional control. e However, remember that ABS will not compensate for bad road or weather conditions or poor driver judgment. Drive within safety margins taking into considera- tion into consideration prevailing weather and traffic conditions.  SAFETY Electronic brake force distribution (EBD) EBD monitors and controls the brake pressure on the rear wheels to improve

force distribution (EBD) EBD monitors and controls the brake pressure on the rear wheels to improve driv- ing stability while braking. EBD provides optimal braking pressure distribution between front and rear wheels to optimize braking distance and to ensure vehicle stability by means of lowering braking pressure increase at rear wheels. e If EBD [@) is malfunctioning, the rear wheels can lock, e.g. un- der full braking. This increases the risk of skidding and an acci- dent. e You should therefore adapt your driving style to the different han- dling characteristics. Have the brake system checked immedi- ately at a TATA MOTORS Author- ized Service Centre as soon as possible. 21  22  KEYS A key is an electronic access and author- ization system available as a standard feature with your vehicle. Unlocking principle The transponder in the ignition key car- ries a Unique Identification Code (UID). The vehicle unlocks when the code on the key matches with the code on the En- gine Management

The vehicle unlocks when the code on the key matches with the code on the En- gine Management System (EMS). In case of PEPS variant, Immobilizer func- tion is provided by PEPS ECU. Engine starting When the key is inserted and the ignition is switched to ‘ON’, all codes are commu- nicated within key, Immobilizer and EMS. The engine will start only if all the codes match. Loss of keys If one of the keys is lost, Contact the TATA MOTORS Authorized Dealer/Ser- vice Center immediately. e Donotturn ‘ON’ ignition switch by using key with any type of metal wound around its grip or in con- act with it. This may be detected as abnormal condition by immo- bilizer and prevent engine from starting. e Do not leave the key in high tem- perature areas. The transponder in it will behave abnormally when reused. e Do not try to start the vehicle when the Immobilizer indicator lamp on the instrument cluster is glowing. In this condition the ve- hicle will not start and the vehi- cle’s battery will also

is glowing. In this condition the ve- hicle will not start and the vehi- cle’s battery will also be drained due to frequent cranking. OPENING AND CLOSING 23  OPENING AND CLOSING Keys (as available) SN Name Remote key Description 1. Mechanical key 1. Locking all doors 2. Unlocking all doors 1. Locking all doors 2. | Smart Key (PEPS) 2. Approach light 3. Tail gate opening 4. Unlocking all doors 1. Customer can wear it on wrist and drive the car (ease of carrying and usage). 3. PEPS wearable 2. This perform dual functions of Passive en- try/exit and Passive start (similar functions of Smart Key — Door lock / door Unlock/Tail- gate opening / Start of vehicle) 24  Smart Key (if available) Locking all doors Approach Light Tail gate opening 4. Unlocking all doors enN> Keep the smart key with user to perform the passive access. It is used for locking, unlocking and starting the vehicle. Locking all doors Press the lock button (1) to lock all the doors of the vehicle. Successful lock will be

all doors Press the lock button (1) to lock all the doors of the vehicle. Successful lock will be indicated by two flashes of turn signal indicators. 1. Approach light This feature helps to find and reach the parked vehicle. When you press approach light button (2) once, low beam and position lamps will turn ‘ON’. To switch ‘OFF’ the approach lights, press and release the same button or it automatically turns ‘OFF’ after certain time. 2. Tail gate Opening Press the lock button (3) to unlock the tailgate. OPENING AND CLOSING 3. Unlocking all doors Press the unlock button (4) to unlock all the doors. Successful unlock will be indicated by one flashes of turn signal indicators. NOTE If smart key battery is low/drained or vehicle battery is low/drained, user can unlock and enter into ve- hicle by using mechanical key blade, which is present inside the smart key. 25  OPENING AND CLOSING Key blade in/out saa i Slide the knob (1) to release the key. Pull the key blade (2) out. 26 Doors Door

blade in/out saa i Slide the knob (1) to release the key. Pull the key blade (2) out. 26 Doors Door lock and unlock with key (if available) The front doors can be locked or un- locked from outside using the key blade. Insert the key in the slot and turn it clock- wise to lock and anticlockwise to unlock the door. Door locking and unlocking using door handle switch (DHS) To lock/unlock all the doors without op- erating smart key button/ key blade. Press the door handle switch (DHS) pro- vided on the driver door to lock/unlock all the four doors including Tail gate. NOTE e Authentication range for smart key ranges from 1 to 1.5 meters from outside the respective door or tail gate. e Passive entry works only when ig- nition is off.  OPENING AND CLOSING Rear Door opening Locking without a key from inside Opening the doors from inside Door opening handle is provided on the All the doors can also be locked from in- _ All doors can be opened from inside. To side of the window. side by

can also be locked from in- _ All doors can be opened from inside. To side of the window. side by pressing lever on driver door and open, pull the door opening lever. All independently on other doors respec- doors can be unlocked by pulling the in- To open the door, press the latch pro- tively. side release lever to the intermediate vided inside the handle and pull. position. When it is further articulated will unlatch the door and can be opened. 27  OPENING AND CLOSING Smart Key Features Vehicle search If smart key is not within the authentica- tion range, the turn indicators of vehicle flashes four times for the driver to locate the vehicle. Automatic activation of immobilizer If smart key will not found within the pas- senger compartment, engine will be im- mobilized and vehicle cannot be start. Auto lock/unlock of doors/ auto re- lock (drive away locking) In case of PEPS variants, door will get un- locked when ignition is OFF by pressing start/stop button. Vehicle doors get

door will get un- locked when ignition is OFF by pressing start/stop button. Vehicle doors get automatically locked when all doors are closed and the vehi- cle speed crosses 10 kmph Also, when unlocked with remote key and if no door is opened within 30 sec- onds, vehicle doors get automatically locked. 28 Key is inside the vehicle and all doors closed with vehicle locked condition. In this scenario customer is informed about the key forgotten inside the vehi- cle through alarm for first 10 seconds with turn indicator flashes. The flashes will continue for 180 seconds at every 20 second interval with turn indicator flashes to enable customer to take out the key from the vehicle. Customer is ad- vised not to leave the key inside the ve- hicle and if the warnings are ignored by customer for entire 180 seconds, vehicle intelligence takes over the control and lock the vehicle for security reasons. NOTE Do not forget to take out key before leaving the vehicle to avoid such situation.

reasons. NOTE Do not forget to take out key before leaving the vehicle to avoid such situation. Anti-grab / anti-scan coding The remote control set of this security system is protected against the use of devices called ‘scanners’ and ‘grabbers’ that can record and reproduce some types of remote codes. Important e Don’t press unlock button on remote in the vicinity of your vehicle, as you may accidentally unlock your vehicle. e For battery replacement procedure, refer ‘MAINTENANCE’ section. e Don’t remove the battery connection of the vehicle while the vehicle has been locked by remote. Smart key Precautions: 1. If smart key is close to radio transmit- ter, it may interfere with the opera- tion of the smart key. 2. If the smart key is near a mobile two way radio system or a cellular phone, then it will not work correctly. 3. If another vehicle’s smart key is be- ing operated close to your vehicle, the signal will fluctuate.  WARNING Keep the smart key away from electromagnetic

to your vehicle, the signal will fluctuate.  WARNING Keep the smart key away from electromagnetic materials which block electromagnetic waves to the key surface. NOTE In case any button of the key is ac- cidentally pressed for more than 20 seconds, the remote stops functioning till the time the button is pressed. The LED on the Remote also stops glowing. The function of the remote gets reinstated imme- diately when the user stops press- ing the push button of remote. Force Panic operation Force Panic ON operation: When the vehicle is in off condition and the lock and unlock buttons are pressed at the same time, the force panic operation be- comes active. In this case, the turn indi- cators start flashing and the vehicle starts to honk. Force Panic OFF operation: To deacti- vate the force panic operation, press any button on the smart key. Vehicle Alarm & Security To prevent automobile thefts, the anti- theft system makes use of an anti-theft alarm (ATA). On detection of any unau-

thefts, the anti- theft system makes use of an anti-theft alarm (ATA). On detection of any unau- thorized access, the BCM triggers the horn (acoustic alarm) and flashes the turn indicators. OPENING AND CLOSING Windows Power windows (if available) 1. Front Window Winding Switch (Left) 2. Front Window Winding Switch (Right) 3. Rear Window Winding Switch (Left) 4. Rear Window Winding Switch (Right) 5. Inhibit Switch 29  OPENING AND CLOSING Window glasses on all four doors can be operated by switches provided on the main control panel located on the driver’s arm rest. They work only when the key is in the ‘IGN ON’ position. NOTE Power windows can be operated for 30 seconds in ‘IGN OFF’ and ‘KEY OUT’ positions, provided the doors are closed. Express down (if available) Window glasses can be opened by a sin- gle long press of the switch. Express down feature is provided for the driver’s door only. 30 Individual switches ndividual window winding switches have been provided on the front

door only. 30 Individual switches ndividual window winding switches have been provided on the front passen- ger and rear doors. Glasses are wound up or down by pulling or pressing the switch. WARNING While raising the glass, take care to avoid fingers/hands getting trapped between glass and the door frame. Inhibit switch Inhibit switch ON When switch is pressed, red light turns ‘OFF’. The individual switches provided on rear and front passenger door cannot be operated.  However, it can be operated from the switches on driver's arm rest. Inhibit switch OFF When switch is pressed, red light turns ‘ON’. The individual switches provided on rear and front passenger door can be operated. It can also be operated from the switches on driver's arm rest. WARNING e If children operate the windows they could be get trapped, partic- ularly if they are left unsuper- vised. There is a risk of injury. e Activate the window inhibit fea- ture when children are travelling. When leaving the vehicle,

e Activate the window inhibit fea- ture when children are travelling. When leaving the vehicle, always take the key with you and lock the vehicle. Never leave children un- supervised in the vehicle. OPENING AND CLOSING Manual Window Winding Opening the bonnet (if available) 1. Make sure that the engine is Use window winder handle for lowering switched off and vehicle is in neutral or raising up window glasses manually gear with the parking where power windows are not provided. brake applied. 2. Pull the bonnet re- lease lever. The bon- net will pop up slightly. 3. Lift the bonnet slightly and with your finger and slide the secondary lock lever located under the center of the bonnet. 31  OPENING AND CLOSING NOTE e Put the stay rod into the hole cor- Tail gate Opening Make sure that the wiper arms are rectly. If the rod drops off, your YNOTE iD body may be caught below the NOTE not raised before you lift up the bonnet to avoid damaging the bonnet. Some variants may have multiple wiper

before you lift up the bonnet to avoid damaging the bonnet. Some variants may have multiple wiper arms and the bonnet. ¢ Deactivate the Idle Stop Start options. (ISS) function for any operation to 4. Lift the bonnet up. Pull the bonnet be performed in the Engine com- Option | stay rod from its clip and put the free partment. end into the slot provided on frame. Closing 1. To close the bonnet, hold the bonnet by one hand, disengage the stay rod and clamp it back properly. 2. Lower the bonnet close to the bumper, then let it drop down. WARNING Make sure that the bonnet is cor- rectly locked or it can fly up unex- To release the tailgate, press the tai pectedly when you drive. gate button on the remote. NOTE e The stay rod can be hot enough to Press the tail gate button on smart burn your finger right after driv- key and press the tail gate door ing. Touch the rod after it be- handle switch within 30 seconds to comes cool enough. open it. 32  Option Il If the vehicle is locked, tail gate

within 30 seconds to comes cool enough. open it. 32  Option Il If the vehicle is locked, tail gate is closed and tail gate DHS switch is pressed with valid smart key in the authentication range the tail gate gets unlatched. On closing the tail gate door, it gets locked. While closing the tail gate, if doors are in locked condition and valid smart key is inside the trunk, then tail gate gets unlocked. NOTE e Once tail gate is opened, it will not get locked automatically with other doors. e If the doors are unlocked, the tail gate can be unlocked via tail gate handle switch without smart key. e Do not keep the smart key in the boot when you close the tail gate. Tail gate can’t be locked using me- chanical key/ flip key/ smart key. It has to be locked by slamming it. OPENING AND CLOSING Option III Emergency Tailgate opening In emergency situation like key or vehi- cle battery is discharged or electrical malfunctioning, you can unlock the tail- gate from inside as per procedure given

or electrical malfunctioning, you can unlock the tail- gate from inside as per procedure given below: 1. Open driver door using mechanical key. 2. Open the rear door. 3. Fold the rear seat. 33  OPENING AND CLOSING 4. And access the tailgate opening lever from inside. 5. Turn the lever clockwise to unlatch and open the tailgate. NOTE This can be used in emergency sit- uation when you are inside the ve- hicle. Fuel lid To release the fuel flap, pull the lever lo- cated at the right hand side below the driver seat. 34 For opening, open the fuel cap, turn it counter clockwise. For closing, turn the fuel cap clockwise and gently push the fuel flap till it gets ocked. WARNING e Fuel vapor is extremely hazard- ous. Always switch ‘OFF’ the en- gine before refueling and never refill near sparks or open flames. Do not use cell phone when you fill fuel. Do not continue adding fuel after the automatic shut ‘OFF’ function is operated if it is equipped on the fuel station. Overfilling the fuel tank

shut ‘OFF’ function is operated if it is equipped on the fuel station. Overfilling the fuel tank could damage the fuel system. NOTE To fill up the fuel, the Engine must be stopped by turning OFF the Ignition Key / Start-Stop but- ton. If the Engine is in Idle Stop Start (ISS) mode, it may restart automatically while filling the fuel. Remove the fuel filler cap slowly, and wait for any hissing to stop. The fuel may be under pressure and may spray out. If fuel cap needs replacement, make sure that it is replaced bya genuine cap at the TATA MO- TORS authorized service center.  Cockpit NOTE: All location shown may not be applicable to your vehicle / Variants. DASHBOARD AND FEATURES 1 | AC. Air vent 2 | Airbag (PAB) 3 Infotainment Display (if available) 4 Steering mounted controls (if available) 5 | Combi-Switch 6 | Horn pad 7 | Fascia switch (if available) 8 Start - Stop switch / Ignition switch (if available) 9 | Airbag (DAB) 10 | USB Port 11 | Controls 12 | Foot Rest 13 Foldable and

switch (if available) 9 | Airbag (DAB) 10 | USB Port 11 | Controls 12 | Foot Rest 13 Foldable and Sliding arm-rest (if available) 14 | Drive mode switch 15 | Parking Brake Lever 16 | Glove box 17 | Gear shift lever 18 | HVAC Control panel / FATC 19 | Center air vent 35  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Instrument Cluster (TFT Screen) Tachometer Driver Information Display Speedometer \aae 110 key i" O0O 256849 km ary Onvoe Temperature Gauge Fuel Gauge NOTE: All indicators shown may not be applicable to your vehicle. 36  Speedometer Speedometer speed in kmph. NOTE At every key IN and ignition ON, the Instrument Cluster needles and gauges move to max. and return to '0' position. This is a welcome strat- egy and a self-check feature. indicates the vehicle Tachometer y, wn ~ ~ 3 a = = \A\N ~y yw S Tachometer indicates engine speed in revolutions per min (rpm). Do not drive the vehicle with a high engine rpm. This may cause dam- age to the engine and reduce its life. DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Fuel Gauge

rpm. This may cause dam- age to the engine and reduce its life. DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Fuel Gauge When the ignition switch is in “ON” posi- tion, fuel gauge gives an approximate in- dication of the amount of fuel in the fuel tank. In indication window, “F” stands for full and “E” stands for empty. og FM 94.1 MHz Distance To Empty => 8) cRUISE 110 km/h When fuel in the tank nears empty, low fuel warning tell-tale light glows. Fill fuel as soon as possible. 37  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES NOTE e Doacheck of the fuel level when the vehicle is stationary on a level road. e The fuel level displayed can vary when you drive on_ inclines, curves, brake and accelerate suddenly. This is due to the move- ment of fuel in the tank. The low fuel warning lamp may turn to ON or OFF earlier or later than usual. If there is any defect in the system, Low fuel warning symbol will blink. Take your vehicle to the nearest TATA MOTORS Authorized Dealer/Service Center. 38 Temperature Gauge When the ignition switch

nearest TATA MOTORS Authorized Dealer/Service Center. 38 Temperature Gauge When the ignition switch is in the “ON” position, this gauge indicates the engine coolant temperature. The indicator should be within the nor- mal, acceptable temperature range i.e. between “H” and “C”. If the indicator ap- proaches “H”, overheating is indicated by a RED progress bar. If the coolant temperature is very high, the engine coolant temperature tell-tale light flashes and you will hear an audio warning. In this case, stop the vehicle, switch the engine ‘OFF’ and allow it to cool down for some time. Contact the nearest TATA MOTORS Authorized ser- vice centre immediately for rectification. The red progress bar indicates over heating due to high coolant tem- perature that may damage the engine. If you continue to drive the vehicle in this case, it can result in severe engine damage or even fire.  Driver Information System Driver Information Odometer System Image 6894 km DASHBOARD AND FEATURES This

Information System Driver Information Odometer System Image 6894 km DASHBOARD AND FEATURES This indicates distance travelled by the vehicle. The odometer reading does not return to “O” when maximum value is reached; the display will freeze the maximum value. Trip meter A & B Trip A0000.0 km Trip B 0000.0 km The trip meter can be used to measure the distance travelled on short trips or between fuel stops. It can be reset to “O”. The trip meter reading becomes “0.0” after it crosses 9999.9 km. Indicates current time in AM/PM mode. Clock time can be changed using steering wheel switches on the steering wheel. Whenever the battery terminals or related fuses are connected, you must Clock 32 PM reset the clock time. This feature is available when ignition switch is in ‘ON’ position. NOTE: Clock settings can also be changed through infotainment system. For more information, refer infotainment manual. etal This shows the power and torque figures delivered by engine in the particular (if

manual. etal This shows the power and torque figures delivered by engine in the particular (if available) driving condition. 39  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Driver Informa‘ Service reminder System Image Descrip This indicates how many days/kilometres are left till service is due. If service is overdue, it will display “O” km or “0” days and a spanner symbol will blink every time ignition is ON for a few seconds. Never reset the display between service intervals as it may give incorrect readings. The information is retained in the service interval display even after the vehicle battery is disconnected. NOTE: This option is for indicative purpose only. Keep track of your odometer reading and follow the maintenance schedule. Door Ajar Respective door open display pop up come for few sec and then telltale with respective door open shall be displayed. Current gear position (indicator) Current gear engaged by the transmission shall be displayed on DIS. NOTE: If “F’ is displayed it means a defect

engaged by the transmission shall be displayed on DIS. NOTE: If “F’ is displayed it means a defect in the system is detected Contact the nearest TATA MOTORS Authorized service centre immediately to rectify the problem. In case of a manual transmission, the gear number will be displayed when the clutch is fully released. Gear Recommendation Up or down arrow will be displayed on DIS to shift a gear up or down. No arrow shall be displayed when the selected gear is as per the Vehicle dynamics. 40  1. Instantaneous fuel economy (IFE) Instant Fuel Economy —- =a} 30 km/I 8) CRUISE 110 km/h It indicates fuel economy of current drive when Ignition is turned ‘ON’. To reach the Instant Fuel Economy in the Instrument cluster. Press the but- ton on the RHS of the steering wheel. IFE display does not show Fuel Economy of last drive. The display does not show actual value unless vehicle is moving. The indication on the display screen may be delayed if fuel consumption is af- fected by driving

The indication on the display screen may be delayed if fuel consumption is af- fected by driving pattern. NOTE IFE will vary frequently as per driv- ing pattern. 2. Power and Torque Indicates the value of Power and Torque delivered by engine in the particular driv- ing condition. DASHBOARD AND FEATURES 3. Average fuel economy (AFE) © 03:15 » 17.2 kmi 9 TripA 265.3km ™ 69km/h ) 03:15|A 69km/h ASA 17.2 km/i 9 TripB 265.3km 1H ODO 256849 km Trip B 41  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES AFE value is an estimate of fuel econ- omy. It may vary significantly based upon driving conditions, driving habits and condition of the vehicle. To see the average fuel economy in the instrument cluster, press the switch on the RHS of the steering wheel. Trip time, Average speed and Trip dis- tance will reset to ‘0’ when respective Trip meter is reset. Average Fuel Economy, Trip time and Average speed will get reset to ‘0’ when Battery is removed and re- fitted. Average Fuel Economy will be dis- played as ‘-.—‘for

to ‘0’ when Battery is removed and re- fitted. Average Fuel Economy will be dis- played as ‘-.—‘for initial 0.5 km of re- spective trip. Once 0.5 km distance is covered, Average Fuel Economy will be displayed. Even after 0.5 km distance covered for particular trip, if Average Fuel Economy is displayed as ~-.-‘, then take your vehicle to TATA MOTORS Authorized Dealer/Service Center. 42 4. Distance to empty (DTE) A 87.5 kHz Distance To Empty The above DTE screen indicates an ap- proximate distance in ‘km’ that your ve- hicle can travel with available fuel in tank. To reach the Distance to Empty in the In- strument cluster. Press the but- tons on RHS of the steering wheel. DTE values may vary significantly based on driving conditions, driving habits, and condition of the vehicle. It is an estimate value of the available driving distance. If low fuel warning light glows, fill the fuel tank immediately regardless of the DTE figure. e If DTE is displayed as ‘—‘, then take your vehicle to

immediately regardless of the DTE figure. e If DTE is displayed as ‘—‘, then take your vehicle to the TATA MO- TORS Authorized Dealer/Service Center. e The DTE will update with a new value when fuel is added for more than 7 litres at a time. 5. Infotainment information on In- strument Cluster display unit. y) FM 98.3 MHz The instrument cluster will display infor- mation like media, navigation and FM.  6. Setting Screen FM )] ® 97.5 kHz Fed Settings Ga Press OK To Enter Setting Menu User can enter into setting by pressing select button while being in setting screen. Settings Illumination Service Reminder Reset Glock About * Back 5 To change the option by press- ing button on RHS of the steer- ing wheel. NOTE In the Setting menu if there is no user input for 10 sec the previous screen shall be displayed. DASHBOARD AND FEATURES 7. Illumination Screen User can select illumination setting by scroll down & pressing set button on the RHS of the steering wheel. Illumination 100% ° eee ee | 0

scroll down & pressing set button on the RHS of the steering wheel. Illumination 100% ° eee ee | 0 1H QDO 256849 km ar & re QB & « To increase the illumination from 20% to 100% in five steps by pressing button on RHS of the steering wheel. To decrease the illumination from 100% to 20% in five steps by pressing button on RHS of the steering wheel. 43  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Illumination setting If parking lamp is OFF, the option is greyed out and can not be selectable Illuminated Key Ring When the vehicle is unlocked, the illumi- nated key ring glows up. This helps to lo- cate ignition switch in the dark. 8. Outside Ambient temperature x1000 23°C » FM ® 87.5 kHz © 03:15/™ 69km/h Am ITZ km! 9 Trip B 265.3km ODO 256849 km This displays outside ambient tempera- ture reading with an accuracy of +1 °C. 44 The temperature sensor is located at the front bumper. Therefore the tempera- ture reading can be affected by heat re- flection from the road surface, engine heat and the exhaust from

can be affected by heat re- flection from the road surface, engine heat and the exhaust from surrounding traffic. If outside temperature falls below -1°C, a “snowflake" symbol appears in addi- tion to the outside temperature reading. NOTE For an accurate temperature read- ing, make sure the vehicle speed is above 30 kmph. If display shows OAT temp as “- - “, take your car to the TATA author- ized service center. 9. Service reminder setting User can select Service Reminder Screen by Scroll down & pressing Set Button in Setting Screen. po 230C Service Reset Service Reminder? Yes Cancel ODO 256849 km User can reset the —_ service reminder symbol by up / down & set buttons. NOTE In the Setting menu if there is no user input for 10 sec the previous screen shall be displayed.  10. Clock Clock indicates current time in 12 / 24 hours mode. Clock mode can be changed either through Instrument Cluster setting screen or through Infotainment sys- tem setting screen, refer infotain- ment system

Cluster setting screen or through Infotainment sys- tem setting screen, refer infotain- ment system manual for this. Clock Setting User can select clock setting by scroll down & pressing set button in setting screen. 39C Set Time Ga © 24 hour format 9:32 AM 12¢°48-am Set; Cancel Up and down button to be used for scrolling through fields of 24 hour format/hour/minute/AM/PM. Selected field will be highlighted as shown in above image. Select button to be used to enter into required field and exit from that. Up and down button to be used for changing the values. DASHBOARD AND FEATURES 45  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Display Messages on Instrument Cluster Below messages may be displayed in the screen for three seconds based on the priority and some of the warnings shall be minimized in the screen. 1. Interrupts Messages Smart Key Battery Low Replace Battery ODO 256849 km NOTE: All messages may not be applicable to your vehicle. 46  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES SN Alert Interrupts Messages on

may not be applicable to your vehicle. 46  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES SN Alert Interrupts Messages on Instrument Cluster 1 Rotate steering wheel (In ESCL jam condition) Press Start Button While Turning Wheel 2 Key Fob battery Low Smart Key Battery Low Replace Battery 3 Smart key out of range Smart Key Out of Range 4 Drive Alert - Tea Break Take a Break 5 Steering Failure, Please Stop Driving Steering Failure Stop the Vehicle Safely 6 Steering Failure, Please Visit Garage Steering Failure Contact Service Center 7 Pedal Press Alert Clutch Press Clutch Pedal to Start Engine 47  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES 2. Warning Messages SN Fuel Level Low State | rpm x1000 7 8 9:32 AM Over Speeding Detected Slow Down OK H ODO 256849 km Warning Messages on Instru' Fuel Level Low Fasten seat belt co-driver Fasten Co-Driver Seat Belt Fasten Seat Belt - Driver Fasten Driver Seat Belt il) w}]nm Speed Limit Warning Over Speeding Detected Slow Down 48  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES 3. Information Messages Change Gear OK SN

Speeding Detected Slow Down 48  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES 3. Information Messages Change Gear OK SN Information Messages on Instrument Cluster 1 Park Brake Engaged Park Brake Engaged 2 Auto Headlamp Auto Headlamp Activated 3 eesume to Target Speed Not Possible in Current Change Gear to Resume Cruise Speed 4 Cruise Override Cruise Override 5 ISS-Start the Engine Auto Stop Start the Engine 6 Autonomous Start Enabled - Battery SOC Low Auto Start Enabled Low Battery Charge. 49  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES SN Alert Information Messages on Instrument Cluster 7 Autonomous Start Enabled - Brake Vacuum Low Auto Start Enabled Low Brake Assist Vacuum 8 Autonomous Start Enabled — Coolant Temp Low Auto Start Enabled Low Coolant Temperature 9 Auto Start Enabled High Steering Angle Auto Start Enabled High Steering Angle 10 Auto Start Enabled Start Vehicle Rolling Auto Start Enabled Vehicle Rolling 11 Auto Start-Stop Enabled Text Alert Auto Start- Stop Enabled 12 Auto Start-Stop Disabled Text Alert Auto

Start-Stop Enabled Text Alert Auto Start- Stop Enabled 12 Auto Start-Stop Disabled Text Alert Auto Start- Stop Disabled 50  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Instrument Cluster (LCD Screen) Tachometer Driver Information Display FuelGauge Speedometer / 'y, 1000 rpm X gS Leys oe” & = - 6_— = 7 8 WE assesses £C96@@@@H L ‘) Setknob Temperature Gauge Mode knob NOTE: All indicators shown may not be applicable to your vehicle 51  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Speedometer Speedometer indicates the vehicle speed in kmph. NOTE Whenever you turn the ignition on, after inserting key in ignition switch the Instrument Cluster nee- dles and gauges move to maxi- mum value and return to '0' posi- tion. This is a welcome strategy and a self-check feature. 52 Tachometer Tachometer indicates engine speed in revolutions per min (rpm). Do not drive the vehicle with high engine rpm. This may cause dam- age to the engine and reduce its life. Fuel Gauge When the ignition switch is in “ON” posi- tion, fuel gauge gives an

and reduce its life. Fuel Gauge When the ignition switch is in “ON” posi- tion, fuel gauge gives an approximate in- dication of the amount of fuel in the fuel tank. “F” stands for full and “E” stands for empty. When fuel in the tank nears empty, low fuel warning tell-tale light glows. Fill fuel as soon as possible.  NOTE e Doacheck of the fuel level when the vehicle is stationary on a plain surface. e The fuel level displayed can vary when you drive on_ inclines, curves, brake and accelerate suddenly. This is due to the move- ment of fuel in the tank. The low fuel warning lamp may turn to ON or OFF earlier or later than usual. If there is any fault in the system, Low fuel warning symbol will start blinking. Take your vehicle to the nearest TATA MOTORS Authorized Dealer/Service Center. Temperature Gauge When the ignition switch is in the “ON” position, this gauge indicates the engine coolant temperature. The indicator should stay within the nor- mal, acceptable temperature range be-

temperature. The indicator should stay within the nor- mal, acceptable temperature range be- tween “H” and “C”. If the indicator ap- proaches “H”, overheating is indicated by a red bar. If the coolant temperature reading is very high, the engine coolant tempera- ture tell-tale light flashes with an audible buzzer. In this case, stop the vehicle, switch ‘OFF’ the engine and cool it down for some time. Contact the nearest TATA MOTORS Authorized Dealer/Service Center immediately for rectification. DASHBOARD AND FEATURES The red progress bar indicates overheating, due to high coolant temperature which may damage the engine. Continuing to drive the vehicle in this case can result in se- vere engine damage or even fire. 53  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Driver Information System (DIS) Driver Information Odometer System Image ovo 19234 im Description Indicates distance travelled by a vehicle. The Odometer reading does not return to “O” when maximum value is reached, the display will freeze to max-

reading does not return to “O” when maximum value is reached, the display will freeze to max- imum value. Trip meter A & B The trip meter can be used to measure the distance travelled on short trips or between fuel stops. It can be reset to “O”. The Trip meter reading becomes “0.0” after it crosses 9999.9 km. Indicates current time in AM/PM mode. Clock time can be changed using ‘SET’ & ‘MODE’ knob. Tatmles Whenever the battery terminals or related fuses are connected, you must Clock LL reset the clock time. This feature is available when ignition switch is in ON OAM position. NOTE: Clock settings can also be changed through infotainment system. For more information, refer infotainment manual. . This warning will be indicated when the driver's door or front passenger door Door Ajar is open. 54  Driver Information Service reminder System Image DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Description This indicates how many days/kilometres are left till service is due. If ser- vice is overdue, it will display

how many days/kilometres are left till service is due. If ser- vice is overdue, it will display “O” km or “O” days and a spanner symbol will blink every time ignition is ON for a few seconds. Never reset the display between service intervals as it may give incorrect readings. The infor- mation is retained in the service interval display even after the vehicle bat- tery is disconnected. NOTE: This option is for indicative purpose only. Keep track of your odom- eter reading and follow the maintenance schedule. Current gear position indica tor Current gear engaged by the transmission shall be displayed on Driver Information System. NOTE: If “F” is displayed it means a ‘Fault’ condition. Contact the nearest TATA MOTORS authorized service centre immediately In case of manual transmission, the gear number shall be displayed even when the clutch is fully released. Gear Recommendation </>) Up or down arrow will be displayed indicating for a gear change. No arrow shall be displayed when the

or down arrow will be displayed indicating for a gear change. No arrow shall be displayed when the selected gear is as per the vehicle dynamics. 55  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES 1. Instantaneous fuel economy (IFE) Monitor the IFE bar graph to achieve bet- ter fuel economy. IFE display does not show Fuel Economy of last drive. The above image indicates real time fuel economy when the ignition is turned ‘ON’. The display does not show actual value unless vehicle is moving. The indication on the display may be de- layed if fuel consumption is affected by driving pattern. e IFE will vary frequently as per driving pattern. e FE display does not show Fuel Economy of last drive. 56 2. Average fuel economy (AFE) Trip time, average speed and trip dis- tance will reset to ‘0’ when respective trip meter is reset. Average Fuel Economy will be displayed as ‘~—‘for initial 0.5 km of respective trip. Once 0.5 km distance is covered, Av- erage Fuel Economy will be displayed. Even after 0.5 km distance

0.5 km distance is covered, Av- erage Fuel Economy will be displayed. Even after 0.5 km distance covered for particular trip, if Average fuel economy is displayed as ‘--.-‘, then take your vehicle to the nearest TATA MOTORS authorized service centre. NOTE e AFE value is an estimate of fuel economy. It may vary significantly based upon driving conditions, driving habits and condition of vehicle. e Average Fuel Consumption will get reset to ‘0’ when Battery is re- moved and refitted. 3. Distance to empty (DTE) The above image indicates an approxi- mate distance in ‘km’ that your vehicle can travel with available fuel in tank. DTE values may vary significantly based on driving conditions, driving habits, and condition of the vehicle. It is an estimate value of the available driving distance. The DTE figure will update with a new value when fuel is added for more than seven litres at a time.  If low fuel warning light glows, fill fuel im- mediately regardless of the DTE figure displayed.

If low fuel warning light glows, fill fuel im- mediately regardless of the DTE figure displayed. NOTE If DTE is displayed as ‘—‘, then take your vehicle to the TATA MOTORS Authorized Dealer/Service Center. 4. Outside Ambient temperature This displays outside ambient tempera- ture reading with an accuracy of +1 °C. Since the temperature sensor is located at the front bumper of the vehicle, the temperature reading can be affected by heat reflection from the road surface, engine heat and the exhaust from sur- rounding traffic. DASHBOARD AND FEATURES 5. Driver Information System (DIS) setting PRESS MODE ODO & OAT SERVICE REMINDER TRIPA& AVG A TRIP B&AVGB { 4 PRESS ‘SET’ FOR LONG TIME TO RESET PRESS ‘SET’ FOR LONG TIME TO RESET TRIP METER & AVG TRIP METER & AVG 57  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES 6. Instrument Cluster Illumination Setting Instrument cluster’s brightness intensity and backlight intensity will turn on after the Parking lamp is ON. The clock and illumination settings should be

intensity will turn on after the Parking lamp is ON. The clock and illumination settings should be changed only when the vehicle is in stationary condition for safety purposes. Illumination setting procedure e For illumination setting short Press SET button with position lamp ON. e Change illumination levels by short pressing SET button. 58 Illumination Setting os * a 5  7. Clock setting If parking lamp is ON and by short pressing SET button you can en- ter into illumination setting. If user want to go to clock screen Short press MODE button. If user want clock in 24/12 hour format, in any screen on Long press MODE button, clock changes to 12/24 hour format re- spectively. SHORT PRESS SET BUTTON DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Clock Setting Minute First Digit Minute Second Digit Clock Both Hour Blink SET Button Blink SET button Digit Blink Long press Long press SET Button Long press exit from clock setting AMIPM Blink SET Button Long press 59  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Display Messages on

from clock setting AMIPM Blink SET Button Long press 59  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Display Messages on Instrument Cluster Below messages can be displayed on the screen for four seconds based on the priority. NOTE: All messages may not be applicable to your vehicle 60  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Information String On LCD Screen 1 Speed Limit Warning OVERSPEED 2 Engine Is Locked ENGINE LOCKED 3 Low Brake Fluid LOW BRAKE FLUID 4 Brake Lamp Failed BRAKELAMP FAILED 5 Reverse Lamp Failed REVERSE LAMP FAIL 6 Service Reminder Days SERVICE DUE 7 Service Reminder Km SERVICE DUE 8 Fuel Level Low State LOW FUEL 9 Key Fob battery Low KEY BATT LOW 10 Smart key out of range KEY OUT OF RANGE 11 Rotate steering wheel (In ESCL jam condition) ROTATE STEERING 12 Resume to Target Speed Not Possible in Current Gear UNABLE TO RESUME 13 Cruise is Resuming to set speed CRUISE RESUMED 14 Press CLUTCH PRESS CLUTCH 15 ISS OFF ISS OFF 16 Please Crank PLZ CRANK 17 Autonomous Start Enabled - Battery SOC Low AUTOSTART 18

OFF ISS OFF 16 Please Crank PLZ CRANK 17 Autonomous Start Enabled - Battery SOC Low AUTOSTART 18 Autonomous Start Enabled - Brake Vacuum Low AUTOSTART 19 Autonomous Start Enabled — Cabin Temp high AUTOSTART 20 Autonomous Start Enabled — Coolant Temp Low AUTOSTART 61  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Tell Tales Indicator Remarks 1. The lamp comes on when ignition is switched ‘ON’. Once engine is Malfunction started, it turns ‘OFF’. Indication Lamp Amber iy 2. Itremains ‘ON’ for any engine related fault that may increase emis- (MIL) sion levels of the vehicle beyond the regulatory norms. Contact the TATA MOTORS Authorized Dealer/Service Center for rectification. 1. The lamp comes on when ignition is switched ‘ON’. Once engine is started, it turns ‘OFF’. Check Engine Lamp Amber 2. Illuminates continuously if a fault arises in Engine Management System. Contact the TATA MOTORS Authorized Dealer/Service Center. 1. The lamp comes on when the system disables the engine start if the original key is not

Center. 1. The lamp comes on when the system disables the engine start if the original key is not used. 2. Lamp blinks: Vehicle is in immobilized condition when key is not in- Immobilizer Red serted. (if available) 3. Lamp ON: Problem with key/system. Contact TATA MOTORS Authorized Dealer/Service Center. 4. Lamp OFF: Normal condition (Authenticated user) and engine will start. 62  Indicator DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Remarks Pre-Heat indicator / Glow Plug indicator (Diesel) Amber 1. The lamp comes on when ignition key is in ‘ON’ position. 2. Start the engine only after this indicator goes ‘OFF’. Turn Signal Green Indicates direction indicated by the turn signal. While you operate the left/right turn indicator, the turn signal blinks along with the buzzer (when ignition is 'ON'). The direction indicator arrow on the instrument cluster flashes along with the selected external indicator lights. Both tell-tale lights will blink simultaneously when the hazard switch is pressed irrespective of

Both tell-tale lights will blink simultaneously when the hazard switch is pressed irrespective of whether the ignition ON or OFF. A tick- tock sound will be heard in both cases. High Beam Blue The lamp comes on when the high beam headlamps are switched ‘ON’ or flashed. Low Oil Pressure indicator Red 1. The lamp comes on when ignition is switched ‘ON’ and goes ‘OFF’ once required engine oil pressure is developed after starting the engine. 2. If the low oil pressure indicator does not glow or remains ‘ON’ when the engine is running, it indicates a fault in the electrical circuit/lubri- cation system. Contact the nearest TATA MOTORS Authorized ser- vice centre to rectify the issue. 63  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Indicator Remarks The lamp comes on when ignition is switched ‘ON’. Once engine is started, it turns ‘OFF’. (if available) Battery charging Red If it remains ‘ON’ while the engine is running, it indicates that the battery is not getting charged. Switch off all unnecessary electrical

it indicates that the battery is not getting charged. Switch off all unnecessary electrical equipment and contact the nearest TATA MOTORS Authorized service centre. The lamp comes on when ignition is switched ‘ON’ and goes ‘OFF’. If it Airbag status Red continuously blinks then contact the TATA MOTORS Authorized oN f ; . Dealer/Service Center immediately. The lamp comes on momentarily when ignition is switched ‘ON’. Once parking brake is released, it turns ‘OFF’. If it remains ‘ON’, then it indi- Park Brake / Brake Fluid) cates: Low / EBD malfunction ea 1. Brake fluid level is low. 2. Park brake is applied. 3. EBD malfunctioning. The lamp comes on when ignition is switched ‘ON’. Once engine is Cruise Control | “ started, it turns ‘OFF’. rulse Control lamp Green The Cruise Control is used to indicate the status of cruise control system to the driver. If the lamp is on, it indicates that the cruise control feature is activated. 64  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Indicator Remarks The lamp comes

cruise control feature is activated. 64  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Indicator Remarks The lamp comes on when ignition is switched ‘ON’. Once engine is started, it turns ‘OFF’. If the engine overheats due to higher coolant temperatures, this in- dicator blinks along with an audible buzzer. Contact your nearest High Coolant Red ft TATA MOTORS authorized service Centre immediately. When the Temperature ASR engine coolant temperature reaches the maximum limit, the tell-tale lights blink with a RED colour and you will hear an audio warning. Note: Do not remove the radiator pressure cap from the radiator when the engine is hot. Do not restart the engine until the problem has been duly attended. The lamp comes on when ignition is switched ‘ON’. Once engine is started, it turns ‘OFF’. The lamp remains on if there is any malfunction in ABS. Normal braking system will be operational without assistance of ABS. Con- tact the TATA MOTORS Authorized Dealer/Service Center immedi- ately. ABS Amber 65

of ABS. Con- tact the TATA MOTORS Authorized Dealer/Service Center immedi- ately. ABS Amber 65  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Indicator Remarks The lamp comes on when ignition is switched ‘ON’. Once engine is started, it turns ‘OFF’. The symbol lights up continuously if fuel level in the tank is low. Fuel Low Fuel indicator Amber ry needs to be filled immediately. Note: The tell-tale warning light will start flashing if there is any fault in the oh uel system. Contact the nearest TATA MOTORS Authorized Dealer/Service Center immediately. TI he driver seatbelt warning indicator remains ON, when ignition is turned ON. The warning lamp remains ON as long as the driver seatbelt is not fastened. If seatbelt remains unbuckled and vehicle goes above 15 kmph, then final audio warning will go on for 90 seconds. Note: Once the seatbelt is fastened the buzzer and warning lamp turns OFF. Seatbelt reminder remains OFF when reverse gear is engaged. Driver Seat belt indicator Red 66  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES

remains OFF when reverse gear is engaged. Driver Seat belt indicator Red 66  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Indicator Remarks This lamp comes on when the Valid Smart key is not detected inside the vehicle. Key Not Detected Amb ——] (if available) mber ana(] Press Clutch Pedal to Pd . . F Start Engine Amber g theening on with IGN ON till user presses the clutch pedal to start (if available) ’ , Water in fuel The lamp remains on if excess water is accumulated in the fuel filter. indicator ue! Amber When this lamp blinks along with chime contact the nearest TATA MO- ll TORS Authorized Dealer/Service Center to drain the water immediately (Diesel) to avoid serious damage to the fuel injection system. The lamp comes on when ignition is switched ‘ON’. Once engine is Daytime running lamps | Amber / started, it turns ‘OFF’. DRL (if available) Green This lamp comes on when the Daytime Running lamp is ‘ON’. Note: Parking lamp should be on to start the DRL lamp. All four door and Tail gate are indicated

Note: Parking lamp should be on to start the DRL lamp. All four door and Tail gate are indicated independently when the respec- tive door or tail gate is open. Door Ajar lamp White / (if available) Red 67  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Warnin, imps | Color Indicator Remarks The co-driver seatbelt warning indicator turns ON when ignition is turned ON. If front passenger seat is occupied by adult, the warning lamp remains ON as long as the co-driver seatbelt is not fastened. Front Passenger If seatbelt remains unbuckled and vehicle i an goes above 15 kmph, then final audio Seat belt indica- Red Pld. warning will go on for 90 seconds. Note: Once the seatbelt is fastened the buzzer and warning lamp turns OFF. Seatbelt reminder remains OFF when reverse gear is engaged. When the vehicle speed crosses 80 kmph, then speed limit warning indicator turns ‘ON’ along with an audio chime for every two minutes (audible warning). If vehicle speed crosses 120 kmph, the speed limit warning indicator flashes

(audible warning). If vehicle speed crosses 120 kmph, the speed limit warning indicator flashes along Speed limit | ; , . . A with an audio warning continuously, until the vehicle speed is above 120 kmph. warning Amber | . . . , indicator If vehicle speed is between 80 kmph and 120 kmph, then the audio warning will become less frequent but the speed limit warning Indicator will remain ‘ON’ contin- uously. When the vehicle speed is reduced below 80 kmph, then the speed limit warning indicator and the audio warning will turn off. The lamp comes on when ignition is switched ‘ON’. Once engine is started, it turns ECO ‘OFF’. . . Gi (if available) reen ECO When ECO lamp is ON, it indicates the car is in 'Economy' drive mode, which helps to achieve a better fuel economy. 68  s | Color Indicator DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Remarks The lamp comes on when ignition is switched ‘ON’. Once engine is started, it turns CITY Mie CITY Orr’ ge cae Blue If CITY lamp is ON, it indicates 'City' drive mode,

it turns CITY Mie CITY Orr’ ge cae Blue If CITY lamp is ON, it indicates 'City' drive mode, which helps to achieve optimum torque and fuel economy. The DPF warning light or symbol switches ‘ON’ continuously to indicate that the DPF needs to eliminate the trapped pollutants (particulate matter) through the re- generation procedure. The warning light or symbol switch ‘ON’ only when driving conditions require the driver to be notified. DPF ‘ON’ does not indicate a malfunction. To switch off the warning light or symbol, keep the car running on road until regen- eration is complete (ideally at 3‘ gear, 50-80 kmph, with engine speed over 2000 rpm). ; ; The process normally takes about 20 minutes. DPF (if available) | Amber The warning light or symbol remains off during the entire DPF regeneration proce- dure If the procedure is not followed, MIL lamp will switch ON, along with DPF lamp on Instrument cluster. Note: Please follow the above-recommended DPF regeneration procedure to avoid MIL

cluster. Note: Please follow the above-recommended DPF regeneration procedure to avoid MIL lamp switch ‘ON’. In case, MIL lamp switch ON, please contact nearest TATA authorized service centre to restore DPF operation. 69  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Audio Reminders (as available) 1. Key-in reminder/audio warning If you forget the key inside the vehicle when you leave the ignition in ‘OFF’ posi- tion, an audio warning will sound. Re- move key to stop the warning. If no key is detected in the vehicle If the vehicle is in ACC ON/IGN ON and the customer takes the smart key out of the vehicle and closes the last door, an audio warning will be sounded for nine times to alert that the key is not in the vehicle. NOTE In this condition customer needs to bring the smart key inside the vehicle. 2. Parking lamp ‘ON’ reminder If you forget to turn OFF the park lamp, an audio warning will be started. Switched OFF the park lamps to stop the warning. 70 NOTE Do not forget to turn OFF your park lamp as it

OFF the park lamps to stop the warning. 70 NOTE Do not forget to turn OFF your park lamp as it may drain the vehicle’s battery. 3. Parking brake ‘ON’ reminder if Park Brake is applied and vehicle is driven, Telltale will turn ‘ON’ and buzzer will provide audio warning continuously. Disengage the park brake to stop audio warning. 4. Reverse Gear reminder If reverse gear is engaged, the buzzer sound will alert you. 5. Driver Seat Belt reminder If seatbelt is not fastened and vehicle goes above 15 kmph, then final audio warning will go on for 90 seconds. Seat elt tell-tale light will remain continu- ously ON when audio alarm is active. 6. Front passenger Seat Belt reminder If front passenger has not fastened seat- belt and if vehicle speed goes above 15 kmph, then final audio warning will go on for 90 seconds. Seat belt tell-tale light will remain continuously ON when audio alarm is active. NOTE Fasten the seatbelt to stop audio warning. 7. Door open reminder If any door is open and the

NOTE Fasten the seatbelt to stop audio warning. 7. Door open reminder If any door is open and the user tries to lock the vehicle, one flash with a beep sound will indicate that a door is open. 8. Engine coolant high chime temperature The engine coolant temperature tell-tale warning light along with an audio warn- ing will alert the driver if the coolant tem- perature is high.  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES 9. Speed limit chime When speed of the vehicle is greater than 80 kmph, an audio warning will sound at periodic interval of 120 sec- onds. When vehicle speed crosses 120 kmph, continuous audio warning (beeps) will sound. 10. Drive mode chime When user switches drive mode from city to eco or eco to city, a single audio warn- ing will sound. 11.Electronic Steering Column Lock (ESCL) chime This feature informs the driver to rotate steering wheel when ESCL gets engaged accidentally. 12. WIF (Water in fuel)/FFC(Fuel Fil- ter Clog ) chime If water is detected in fuel buzzer shall sound to alert

in fuel)/FFC(Fuel Fil- ter Clog ) chime If water is detected in fuel buzzer shall sound to alert you. Combi-Switch (RH Stalk) (if available) 1. Left Turn signal - Move the lever fully upward. 2. Right Turn signal - Move the lever fully downward. NOTE When the turn is completed, the signal will cancel and the lever will return to its normal position. 3. High beam - Move the lever forward to select the high beam function. Pull the lever back to normal for low beam. 4. High beam Flash (spring return) To flash the high beam, pull the lever towards you from the normal posi- tion. It will return to its normal posi- tion when you release it. 5. Headlamp Rotary Switch i. OFF Position » OFF All lamps will remain ‘OFF’. ii. Parking Lamp Rotate stalk to turn ‘ON’ the Park- ing lamps. iii. Low Beam Rotate stalk to turn ES D Beam function.  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES iv. Auto Light > CO The headlights will be automati- cally switched ON depending on ambient light conditions (while en- tering a tunnel

be automati- cally switched ON depending on ambient light conditions (while en- tering a tunnel or when it is twi- light). WW 6. Day Time Running Lamps (DRL) Ei) i. To activate and deactivate DRL, keep the ignition switch is 'ON' position and switch the parking lamp ON-OFF twice. Day time Running Lamps (DRL) are used to increase the visibility of the vehicle to other drivers during daytime. ii. Activation and Deactivation of DRL can be done by DRL soft switch, which is available on the Infotain- ment Display. 72 7. Lane Change Signal To signal a lane change, move the lever slightly up or down to the point where the turn signal light begins to flash for six times, but the lever does not latch. The turn signal will flash six times automati- cally. Head lamp leveling rotary switch ’ % nner rotary switch on right hand stalk is provided for head lamp leveling. With the inner rotary switch, Head lamp leveling can be done with head lamp in Low Beam and in ‘ON’ position. Select cor- rect

Head lamp leveling can be done with head lamp in Low Beam and in ‘ON’ position. Select cor- rect position before start of trip, when the vehicle is stationary. Depending on the number of passengers and luggage in the vehicle headlamp focus may change. This can be adjusted by rotating the knob to one of the three level positions.  Combi-Switch (LH Stalk) (if available) 0) ‘OFF’ Position The wiper is switched ‘OFF’. 1) Intermittent wipe Push the stalk upwards to op- erate intermittent wipe. Inner rotary switch on left hand stalk is provided for intermittent front wiper delay. The switch has five de- lay timers. Push the stalk towards posi- tion (1) for single wipe. 2) Slow Wipe Push the stalk towards position (2) for continuous slow wipe. 3) Fast Wipe Push the stalk towards position (3) for continuous fast wipe. 4) Flick wipe (spring return) Pull the stalk downwards and hold it for continuous wipe, Kel the wiper continuously wipes across the windshield at low speed till the stalk is 5)

wipe, Kel the wiper continuously wipes across the windshield at low speed till the stalk is 5) Front Windshield Washer e Pull the lever little longer, to spray the washer fluid e The windshield wipers will operate for three cycles after the lever is re- leased and for one more cycle after released. on the windshield. alias five seconds. DASHBOARD AND FEATURES 6) Auto front wipe If your vehicle is fitted with rain and light sensor, the wipers will automatically wipe the windscreen, if it senses rainfall. Make sure that the wiper stalk is in Auto position. NOTE When you crank the engine, the supply to washer motor is momen- tarily cut off. 73  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES 6) Rear Wash and Wipe Clockwise Counter Clockwise Rear Windshield / Wiper and Washer (spring return) Turn the rotary knob clockwise and release to operate rear windshield wash and wipe. The wind- shield wipers will operate for three cycles. 74 Rear Wipe Turn the rotary knob counter | ca | clockwise such that it aligns its

three cycles. 74 Rear Wipe Turn the rotary knob counter | ca | clockwise such that it aligns its positions with arrow mark to operate rear wind- shield wiper continuously. NOTE Rear wiper will not work as long as tailgate is open. Rear Windshield/ Wiper and Washer Turn the rotary knob counter clockwise such that it aligns Switch its positions with the arrow i mark and hold it to operate rear windshield wash and wipe function. It will return to ‘Rear wipe’ position as soon as it is released and continues to wipe. NOTE When you reverse the car with front wipers in ‘ON’ condition, the rear wiper will also be ‘ON’. If you operate wash and wipe func- tion for more than 15 seconds the controller cuts off the supply to the washer motors to avoid overheat- ing. Rain/Light Sensor (as available) The integrated rain and light sensor is mounted on front windshield glass to sense rain and light. As per the input from sensor, the wipe and light functions will work automati- cally.  Dashboard

As per the input from sensor, the wipe and light functions will work automati- cally.  Dashboard controls Fascia switches are provided on driver side dashboard. 1. Front Fog lamp switch 2. Rear Fog lamp switch 3. Idle stop start switch (ISS) 1. Front Fog Lamps (if available) The front fog lamps are located on the front bumper. In poor visibility conditions due to fog, snow or rain, the fog lamps make visibility better and make it easier for other road users to see you. It turns to ‘ON’ when the fog lamp switch is turned on when the ignition is ‘ON’ and when the position and parking/ head lamp is ‘ON’. An indicator on the instru- ment cluster will come on when the front fog light is ‘ON’. DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Fog lamp as Cornering Lamp The front fog lamps also function as cor- nering lamps to light up the area to the side of the vehicle, making night-time parking and turning safer. 2. Rear Fog Lamps (if available) Rear Fog Lamp is available on the rear bumper for better visibility in

Fog Lamps (if available) Rear Fog Lamp is available on the rear bumper for better visibility in adverse weather conditions to avoid accidents. The rear fog lamp can be switched ‘ON’ with ignition and headlamp or front fog lamp is ‘ON’. 75  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES 3. Idle Stop Start switch (ISS) (if available) Your car is equipped with push Button on right side of the dashboard to Ena- ble OR Disable ISS function. For more details refer ‘starting & driv- ing” section. Steering mounted controls (LHS) (if available) 76 1. Volume 4 i <- | Press above switch to increase or de- crease volume of music system / radio. Press above switch to change radio channels. 3. Receive calls/PTT (Push to Talk) Press above switch to ac- ” Nn 2. Seek forward/back- ward cept incoming call when a cell phone is connected via Bluetooth. Voice Recognition To start, press the voice activation but- ton provided on the steering wheel. The system mutes/ pauses the currently played audio and you will hear a beep sound

steering wheel. The system mutes/ pauses the currently played audio and you will hear a beep sound to indicate the activation of the voice recognition feature. The system displays the Voice Recognition screen on Infotainment to indicate activation of the feature. NOTE The system will start recognizing your voice command only after the beep. So, speak your command only after you hear the voice acti- vation beep. 4 Mute/phone reject Press above switch to reject or hang up a phone call. It is also used to mute the volume of music system/radio. 5. Source Press above switch to se- Xh.. lect the required source in the infotainment system i.e. USB, AM, FM and Bluetooth.  Steering mounted controls (RHS) (if available) 1. Instrumentation controls(IC) i. Instrumentation controls scroll LH < ii. Instrumentation controls scroll RH Press above switch to scroll LH on Instrument Cluster display. Press above switch to scroll RH on Instrument Cluster dis- play. 2. OK/Select & long press for settings

above switch to scroll RH on Instrument Cluster dis- play. 2. OK/Select & long press for settings Press the above switch to se- lect the option and long press it (ap- prox. three seconds) to go directly to the instrument cluster settings. master 3a.Cruise set (reset) using speed increase (decrease) switch e Press the cruise control switch on steering wheel. e Accelerate the vehicle to the desired speed. e Make sure that the Clutch and Brake pedals are not pressed. e Press the ‘SET’ button on steering wheel switch to set the desired cruise speed. The cruise control indi- cator on instrument cluster will turn ‘ON’. e Remove your foot from the accelera- tor pedal. Once Cruise control is activated the ve- hicle automatically maintains the stored speed. DASHBOARD AND FEATURES 3b.Changing the set cruise speed The set cruise speed can be adjusted using the buttons ‘+’ (to increase) or ‘-’ (to decrease) on steer- ing wheel. The speed increases and decreases on a single press. The changed

(to decrease) on steer- ing wheel. The speed increases and decreases on a single press. The changed speed will be shown on the speedometer. Keeping the switch pressed increases or decreases the speed continuously till the switch is re-leased or maximum/ minimum speed limit for particular gear is reached. The set speed can also be increased by pressing the accelerator pedal till the de- sired speed is achieved and then press- ing the ‘SET’ button. The set speed can also be decreased by pressing the brake pedal (The cruise in- dicator will turn OFF) and slowing down to desired speed and then pressing the ‘SET’ button (The cruise control indicator will turn ‘ON’ again). 77  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES 4. Cruise control master switch Cruise speed can be resumed only if cruise control is deactivated by applying the brake. To resume the previ- ously set cruise speed, accelerate the vehicle to a speed is as per gear selected as below: 34 gear approx. 30Kmph to 80Kmph 4" gear approx. 40kmph to

speed is as per gear selected as below: 34 gear approx. 30Kmph to 80Kmph 4" gear approx. 40kmph to 120Kmph 5% gear approx. 50kmph to 140Kmph 5. Cruise control deac- tivating switch 3x There are two ways to deacti- vate cruise control: e Applying brake / clutch. e Press deactivation switch on Steer- ing Wheel NOTE For more information related to steering mounted controls, refer the infotainment manual. (Refer link -http://service.tatamo- tors.com/content/owners-manual )if applicable) 78 Mic (if available) Mic is provided on the roof near the roof lamp. Infotainment System Display (if available) Option |  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Option II Speakers & Tweeter (if available) USB Port (if available) 1. Tweeter NOTE . Connect your pen drives to this socket 2. Speaker for playing music tracks through the ve- For more information, refer info- tainment manual. ((Refer link -http://service.tatamo- tors.com/content/owners-manual )if applicable) Speakers and Tweeters are available in _ hicle’s

tors.com/content/owners-manual )if applicable) Speakers and Tweeters are available in _ hicle’s music system. models with infotainment system. Provi- sions are given for music system and speakers on versions without infotain- ment system. 79  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Power Socket Antenna The power socket will work when the ignition switch is in the “ACC” or “ON” position. This socket can be used to provide 12V (10A) power for electrical accessories. For rear passenger NOTE Antenna is located on the roof. Turn the * Use of unapproved electrical ac- antenna anticlockwise to remove it from cessories can cause damage to __ the vehicle, if required. your vehicle’s electrical system. : e Make sure that any electrical ac- For front passenger cessories you use are designed to plug into this type of socket and rating. 80  Roof Grab Handle Option | Option Il Grab handles are installed on the roof for all seats except for the driver's seat. These help the passengers to position themselves

roof for all seats except for the driver's seat. These help the passengers to position themselves comfortably during the journey. DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Roof Lamp Option | Interior roof lighting lamp is provided on the roof with inbuilt switch. The switch has three positions: ON - The lamp will turn ‘ON’ as long as the switch is in this po- sition. DOOR -- In this position the lamp turns to ‘ON’ when ei- ther of the doors are opened. When the last door is closed, the lamp will turn ‘OFF’ with dimming. This helps 81  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES settling in the seat and inserting the key in the ignition switch. When the key is turned to the ‘IGN’ position, the lamp goes ‘OFF’ immediately. OFF - In this position, the lamp will remain ‘OFF’. LO | Option Il Interior roof lighting lamp is provided switch. on the roof with inbui Press the button to turn the lamp ‘ON’. It will remain ‘ON’ even when either of the doors are opened. When the last door is closed, the lamp will turn ‘OFF'. NOTE The

either of the doors are opened. When the last door is closed, the lamp will turn ‘OFF'. NOTE The Lamp will turn on as long as the ignition switch is in "ON" position. 82 Boot Lamp (if available) Boot lamp is provided in the rear lug- gage compartment to illuminate the uggage area. t will switch on whenever any door or ailgate is open. Side indicator lamp It is provided on the side fender. t will turn ON when the turn signal in- dicator switch is ON and hazard warn- ing switch is ON.  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Front Lamp 1. Position /Turn indicator lamp 1. Reverse lamp (on LH lamp only) 2. High beam lamp 2. Stop lamp 3. Low beam lamp 3. Turn indicator 4. Front fog lamp (if available) 4. Parking lamp 5. DRL (if available) 83  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Ambient Lights (if available) Ambient Light function Interior ambient lighting comforts user by illuminating the vehicle interiors at defined locations. Single colored LEDs are fixed at various locations of the ve- hicle interiors. Turning

locations. Single colored LEDs are fixed at various locations of the ve- hicle interiors. Turning Ambient lighting on and off: e Ambient Lights turn on in Blue color whenever parking light is turned to ON. e Ambient Lights turn off whenever parking light is turned to OFF. 84 Ambient Lights (Entry/Exit): Ambient Lights turn on in Blue color whenever roof lamp made active by removing the ignition key from key slot and opening any door. Once the opened door is closed, the Ambient lights dims off after approx- imately 25 seconds. If door is left open, ambient lights will turn OFF after set battery saver time.  STOWAGE AREAS Storage Compartment 1. Glove box 2. Driver side coin box 3. Utility pockets on front doors 4. Utility pockets on rear doors 5. Centre console 6. Stowage for rear passenger 7. Tailgate Compartment (Luggage) (if available) 85  STOWAGE AREAS 1) Glove box iii) Stowage detail (if available) iv) Cooling facility (if available) i) Opening and closing To open - Press the knob

(if available) iv) Cooling facility (if available) i) Opening and closing To open - Press the knob and open the glove box flap. To close - Lift glove box flap upward un- til it engages. ii) Glove box illumination (if availa- ble) The glove box lamp illuminates when the glove box flap is opened. NOTE Make sure that glove box flap is closed while driving. 86 Following items can be stowage in glove box. 1. a FON iPod Visiting card Pen holder Cup holder Mobile Phone On selected models glove box is pro- vided with a cooling facility. It cools the glove box only when the front A/C is ON. Shut OFF the vent by rotating the knob, whenever cooling is not required.  STOWAGE AREAS 2) Driver side coin box 3) Utility pockets on front doors 4) Utility pockets on rear doors Stowage is provided on RH side of steer- Utility pockets are provided on front Utility pockets are available on rear ing wheel for Coin, mobile and wallet. doors and it can be used to keep follow- doors and it can be used to keep

Coin, mobile and wallet. doors and it can be used to keep follow- doors and it can be used to keep follow- ing items. ing items. 1. Magazine / paper / books 1. Suitable water bottle 2. Suitable water bottle 2. Magazine / paper / books 3. Umbrella NOTE Remove the water from umbrella and fold it properly before storing it in umbrella holder. 87  STOWAGE AREAS 5) Center console Option Il Option | Stowage below arm rest A storage compartment is provided be- low the armrest for keeping phones, chargers etc. To open the armrest pull the flap. Following items can be stowage in Cen- ter console. 1. Pen holder 2. Cup holder 88 6) Stowage for rear passenger (if available) Stowage for the rear passenger is avail- able on rear side of floor console be- tween the front passenger seats. It can be used to keep phone and small items. Applicable for models where rear vents is not provided.  STOWAGE AREAS 7) Tailgate Compartment e Do not place anything on luggage (luggage) cover as it could obstruct

7) Tailgate Compartment e Do not place anything on luggage (luggage) cover as it could obstruct driver’s - rear view. Also in case of an acci- dent or sudden braking, it could cause an injury to occupants. Goggle stowage Store the luggage in tailgate compart- ment. You can keep Suitcase, bags, etc. WARNING e Distribute the items of luggage as evenly as possible. Place for keeping goggle is provided © Positionheavyloads towards rear above the roof lamp. seat and low down in the trunk as possible. e Do not allow occupants to travel in the luggage compartment. 89  STOWAGE AREAS HOOKS (if available) i) Coat Hook Coat hanger is provided for rear passen- ger on right side grab handle. NOTE e The coat hook is not designed to carry heavy objects or luggage items. e Do not hang hard, sharp-edged or fragile objects on the coat hook. 90 ii) Collapsible hook iii) Carrier hook Collapsible hook is provided for hanging Carrier hook is provided for hanging small carry bags etc. small carry bags etc.

for hanging Carrier hook is provided for hanging small carry bags etc. small carry bags etc. NOTE Do not use these hooks for secur- ing luggage like using nets etc. in the boot.  CLIMATE CONTROL The climate control regulates the temperature set in cabin based on user settings and it can be set in temperature settings. Air Distribution- The air is distributed through the vents in the passenger compartment as shown below: 91  CLIMATE CONTROL Air vents Rear AC vents (if available) Rear AC vents are available between two front seats. It can be switched ‘ON’ pro- vided that front AC is switched ‘ON’. Air vents are available on the dashboard. The direction of air flow can be adjusted using sliders on the respective vents. It can be switched ‘ON/OFF’ by rotating knob. Side Air Vents (Front) Centre Air Vents (Front) 92  HVAC Controls (if available) A. Temperature Control B. Blower Speed Control C. Air Distribution Control D. Fresh/ Recirculation air mode E. AC ON/OFF Switch A. Temperature

C. Air Distribution Control D. Fresh/ Recirculation air mode E. AC ON/OFF Switch A. Temperature control HIGH The temperature control knob allows you to adjust the temperature. The tempera- ture can be increased by rotating the knob towards the red segment (clock- wise) and decreased by rotating it to- wards the blue segment (anti-clockwise). CLIMATE CONTROL B. Blower Speed control OFF HIGH This is to turn ‘ON’ the blower and select desired blower speed. 93  CLIMATE CONTROL C. Air distribution control This is to select the air distribution pat- tern as described in the table. Of Directs air through the cen- Directs air through the cen- ter and side air vents >? Y rf ter, side and foot well vents Directs air through the foot well air vents of Directs air through the de- froster & foot well vents (Default fresh air mode) Ue Directs air through the de- froster vents (Default fresh HH air mode) 94 D. Fresh / Recirculation air mode Press the switch to activate / deactivate air recirculation

94 D. Fresh / Recirculation air mode Press the switch to activate / deactivate air recirculation mode. Press to ‘ON’ or ‘OFF’ Recirculation mode: (Indicator light ‘ON’) Air in the passenger compartment recir- culates. No fresh air enters the compart- ment. Always use when: e Driving on a dusty road or through tunnel. e On signals or slow traffic to avoid traffic pollution. e Maximum cooling is required. Fresh Air mode: (Indicator light ‘OFF’) Fresh air is drawn into the vehicle. Always use when: e Discomfort is felt or windows are fog- ging up. e Using F/ oor GH air flow modes during demist / defrost. e Using normal heating mode. E. AC ON/OFF Press the button to switch ON/OFF the AC. The indicator lamp in the button will light up when AC is ON.  NOTE NOTE The AC can be switched to ‘ON’ only if the blower is ‘ON’ and en- gine is running. When AC is switched to ‘ON’, engine idling RPM increases marginally to ad- just the AC compressor load. When desired temperature is achieved Ac

increases marginally to ad- just the AC compressor load. When desired temperature is achieved Ac compressor will self displace opti- mum refrigerant flow. Water may drip from the under- side of the vehicle when it is in cooling mode. Traces of water on the ground are normal and are not a sign of leakage or malfunc- tion. Ventilate the vehicle for a brief period during warm weather. This will speed up the cooling process and the desired vehicle interior temperature will be reached quickly. Do not cover the air vents or air intake grilles in the vehicle inte- rior. If the AC is not used for a long pe- riod, such as during winter, it may not give the best performance when you start using it again. Op- erate the AC at least once a month to maintain optimum per- formance. CLIMATE CONTROL When you start the vehicle after a long duration (more than 15 days), follow the procedure for better AC performance: - Start the vehicle and allow the engine to idle for 2-3 minutes. AC should be off in

performance: - Start the vehicle and allow the engine to idle for 2-3 minutes. AC should be off in this period. - Switch the AC on and run it for another 2~3 minutes while the engine idles. This circu- lates the refrigerant and oil to lubricate the internal parts of the air-conditioning system. 95  CLIMATE CONTROL Functions and Settings Here are the recommended basic settings of the control elements of air conditioning system for the respective operating modes. These may vary depending on individual requirements and weather conditions: Normal heating Quick heating D. Fresh / Recircula-| A. Air Temperature | B. Blower Speed | C. Air Flow Direction] E. AC ON / OFFI @ o oO ion air mode © Desired temp. 2"4 or 3 dot ey or op Fresh air mode. Switched OFF To the extreme right up to the stop To MAX speed and then 2"4 or 3° dot or Briefly switch ON to Recirculation mode hen Fresh air mode Switched OFF Normal Cooling Desired temperature | 1‘ to 3 dot of or of Recirculation mode Switched ON

OFF Normal Cooling Desired temperature | 1‘ to 3 dot of or of Recirculation mode Switched ON Quick Cooling tp tethostoe left an tena or of Reetroulation Switched ON Demisting Desired temperature | 2"4 or 3" dot a (etait) mode be ‘sul. ON 96  General Description: FATC system controls the in-cabin tem- perature of the vehicle automatically and provides maximum passenger con- venience regardless of outside weather conditions. Fully Automatic Temperature Control (FATC) (if available) ee Rear window demister button Maximum Defrost button Air Distribution mode Blower speed down control FON> Blower speed up control Temperature control knob Auto ON selection button AC ON/ OFF button 9. Fresh Air / Recirculation button 10. OFF button PNA Display unit Android Auto FATC display is shown on main display screen. FATC functions can be controlled using both the FATC control panel and the touch screen display. Whenever the user presses any push button or turns the rotary knob, then the CLIMATE

display. Whenever the user presses any push button or turns the rotary knob, then the CLIMATE CONTROL display unit will show the Climate Information. relevant Also, when the display is not in climate mode then climate information will be displayed on the all-time display availa- ble on the top bar. 1. Rear Window Demister Button A. This button turns the rear window demister ON or OFF. The system will be deactivated after 15 min of continuous operation. Max Defrost Button A. This button directs the main airflow towards windscreen for faster defrosting. (It also overrides any mode selection you may have made.) B. When you turn off the button, the sys- tem returns to its former settings. 97  CLIMATE CONTROL NOTE For your safety make sure you have a clear view through all the windows before driving. tem will regulate the mode automatically. However, user override is possible with the use of MODE button to select the desired air- flow mode. 3. Air Distribution Mode In AUTO mode, the FATC

MODE button to select the desired air- flow mode. 3. Air Distribution Mode In AUTO mode, the FATC sys- Each time you press the MODE button, the display shows the mode selected. of Directs air through the center and side air vents Directs air through the center, side and foot well vents 98 Directs air through the foot well air vents aff Si HY 4. Blower Speed Control button Speed Control Up Directs air through the defroster & foot well vents (De-fault fresh air mode) Directs air through the defroster vents (Default fresh air mode) Press the Blower Speed con- trol down button to decrease the blower speed. 5. Blower button Press the Blower Speed con- trol up button to increase the blower speed. 6. Temperature control knob Turning the temperature control knob clockwise increases the temperature of the air. The desired temperature will be increased by steps of 0.5°C. User can se- lect temperature range from 18°C to 30°C. Turning the knob in the anticlock- wise direction reduces temperature.

range from 18°C to 30°C. Turning the knob in the anticlock- wise direction reduces temperature. When you set the temperature to its lower limit (Lo) or its upper limit (Hi), the system runs at full cooling or heating only. It doesn’t regulate the interior tem- perature.  7. Auto ON selection button Se To put the automatic climate control in fully automatic mode: Press the ‘AUTO’ button. A. Set the desired temperature by turn- ing temperature control knob. The display will show all the functions during ‘AUTO’ mode. B. The system automatically selects the proper mix of conditioned and / or heated air that will, as quickly as pos- sible, raise or lower the interior tem- perature to your preference. C. When you set the temperature to its lower limit (Lo) or its upper limit (Hi), the system runs at full cooling or heating only. It does not regulate the interior temperature. Semi-automatic Operation You can manually select various func- tions of the climate control system when it is in

Operation You can manually select various func- tions of the climate control system when it is in fully automatic mode. All other features remain automatically con- trolled. Making any manual selection causes the word ‘AUTO’ in the display to go OFF and the overridden setting is dis- played. System will remain in semiauto- matic mode till ‘AUTO’ is pressed again. 8. AC ON/ OFF Button Press the AC ON/OFF but- ton to turn the air condi- tioning ON or OFF. The AC icon activate on the display when the AC is ON. CLIMATE CONTROL 9. Fresh Air/ Recirculation Button A. When the recirculation switched ‘ON’, air from the = es button or LED is interior is sent throughout the sys- tem. B. When the recirculation button is switched to ‘OFF’, air from outside enters into the cabin (fresh mode). Whenever discomfort is felt, switch to fresh air mode. The outside air intakes for the cli- mate control systems are at the base of windscreen. Keep this area clear from leaves and other debris. Use

systems are at the base of windscreen. Keep this area clear from leaves and other debris. Use recirculation mode for faster heat- ing and cooling. However, keeping the system in recirculation mode - particu- larly when the AC is in OFF - can cause fogging of windows. 99  CLIMATE CONTROL NOTE When reverse gear is selected, air inlet may switch to recirculation mode if it is in fresh air mode, to prevent exhaust fumes from enter- ing the cabin. 10. “OFF” button Press the OFF button to switch the system ‘OFF’. OFF will be displayed on the infotainment screen. 100  HVAC Sensors HVAC system is fitted with three sensors 1. Asolar sensor on windshield glass at the center. 2. 3. In-car sensor on HVAC control panel. Outside Ambient Temperature (OAT) sensor located under the front bumper grill. NOTE Do not cover or spill any liquid on sensors. Do not cover sensor, this may cause the sensor to malfunction. This may lead to FATC not func- tioning to desired level. CLIMATE CONTROL Quick Cooling If

This may lead to FATC not func- tioning to desired level. CLIMATE CONTROL Quick Cooling If your vehicle is parked under the sun, you can cool it down fast by following the steps given below: 1. Start the engine. 2. Turn the A/C on and make sure the temperature control is set to the low- est. In case of FATC set temperature to ‘Low’ mode. 3. Set the blower to maximum speed 4. Slightly open the windows and direct the vents towards the face. 5. When the interior has cooled down to a comfortable level, close the win- dows and set the required tempera- ture, with recirculation mode ON. 101  CLIMATE CONTROL etting (6) (7) (1) (2) (3) (4) ©) (8) & (9) (10) Tempera- Auto Rear Maximum wr sire Blower Blower Up Fresh air/ ution i ture demister defrost Down AIC reciroula- 7 Normal heat- Desired Desired Desired - ing Temp Auto OFF OFF OFF Speed Speed A/C ON Fresh Air To the ex- e Quick treme right Max . heating until temp OFF OFF OFF ay fr’ NA speed ON Fresh air ‘Hy Normal Cool- Desired > ?

Max . heating until temp OFF OFF OFF ay fr’ NA speed ON Fresh air ‘Hy Normal Cool- Desired > ? Desired Desired Recircula- . Auto OFF OFF A/C ON ing Temp Temp Temp tion To the ex- = e Quick treme left Max Recircula- Cooling until temp OFF OFF OFF r NA speed ON tion ‘LO’ 102  (1) (2) (3) (4) CLIMATE CONTROL (6) (10) Tempera- ture Rear demister Maximum defrost Air distri- bution Blower Down Blower Up Fresh air/ recircula- tion Demisting To the right up, to the desired tempera- ture OFF As desired ON ES Desired speed Desired speed A/C ON Fresh air Defrosting To the right up, to the desired tempera- ture OFF OFF ON HY NA Max speed ON/OFF Fresh air 103  CLIMATE CONTROL Fully Automatic Temperature Control (FATC) adjusted by Info- tainment system AC set in Auto mode FATC settings on Head Unit 104  Pre Driving Checks Make sure that Windshield, windows, mirrors, lights, and reflectors are clean and unob- structed. Tool kit, jack & handle, warning trian- gle, owner’s manual, first aid kit and

and unob- structed. Tool kit, jack & handle, warning trian- gle, owner’s manual, first aid kit and vehicle documents are available and stored at their locations. Do not put any mat on the floor car- pet near control pedals area. All doors, engine bonnet and tail gate are securely closed and latched. All occupants should always wear seat belts or suitable CRS as applica- ble while travelling. Objects, luggage or loads are se- cured correctly against slipping or tipping. Rear seat is securely latched. There is sufficient fuel for the trip. Daily check Tyres for unusual wear, cracks or damage and embedded foreign ma- terial such as nails, stones, etc. Traces of fluid and oil below vehicle. NOTE Water dripping below the car is normal. This is due to the usage of air conditioning system. All lamps, wipers, wiper blades and horn for proper operation. All switches, gauges and tell tales are working properly. Adjust: Seats, head restraints and steering wheel position. Adjust all the mirrors

properly. Adjust: Seats, head restraints and steering wheel position. Adjust all the mirrors before you start the car. STARTING AND DRIVING Weekly check NOTE Engine oil level Coolant level Brake fluid level Windshield washer fluid level Battery electrolyte level Fuel level Tyre pressure should always be measured in cold conditions. Do a check of the tyre pressure and condition after every 15 days, including the spare tyre. 105  STARTING AND DRIVING Driving Tips Fuel consumption, engine, transmission, brake and tyre wear are mainly affected by the below factors: Operating conditions of your vehicle Your personal driving style Operating conditions Avoid frequent starts and stops as these actions increase the fuel con- sumption of the vehicle. Always ensure correct tyre pressure. Do not carry any unnecessary weight. Regularly service your vehicle and adhere to the recommended service maintenance schedule. 106 Personal driving style Do not press the accelerator pedal when starting the

schedule. 106 Personal driving style Do not press the accelerator pedal when starting the engine. Do not warm up the engine when the vehicle is stationary. Always adapt your driving style to suit the prevailing road, weather condi- tions, and maintain a safe distance from the vehicle in front. Drive care- fully. Avoid frequent, sudden acceleration and braking. Select appropriate gear according to varying speeds and load conditions. NOTE Do not rest your foot on the clutch pedal while driving. Switch ‘OFF’ the engine in stationary traffic or at signals. Keep an eye on the vehicle's fuel consumption. Safety systems are merely aids de- signed to assist driving. You are re- sponsible for the distance between the vehicles in front, for vehicle speed and anticipating braking in good time. You could lose control of your ve- hicle if you try to adjust the driv- er's seat, head restraint, mirror, steering wheel and fasten the seat belt while driving. There is a risk of an accident. Do not rest

steering wheel and fasten the seat belt while driving. There is a risk of an accident. Do not rest your hand on the shift lever during driving; Pressure transmitted from your hand may result in premature wear of the transaxle internal gear shift mechanism. Press the clutch fully while shift- ing the gears. The reverse gear should be engaged only when the vehicle is stationary. Transmis- sion may get damage by trying to shift into reverse gear while the  vehicle is moving. Wait for 5 sec- onds after declutching to ensure smooth engagement of the re- verse gear or shift into one of the forward gears for a moment while clutch is pressed fully. This will avoid grinding of reverse gear while shifting. Recommended speeds fuel economy Speed(kmph) | Speed(kmph) 1 15 20 2 30 35 3 50 55 4 65 75 5 85 95 Good driving practices Slow down before you shift to a lower gear. This helps the engine to keep a lower rpm and result in less wear and tear of the engine components. Avoid frequent brake

to keep a lower rpm and result in less wear and tear of the engine components. Avoid frequent brake application which can cause overheating of brakes. Slow down the vehicle when you drive in cross winds to get better con- trol over the vehicle. Tips for STARTING AND DRIVING Avoid high speed when cornering or turning. Press the clutch fully while shifting gears. Make sure that vehicle is completely stationary before you attempt to shift in reverse gear. Drive slowly on wet roads. You can get extra braking from the engine by shifting to a lower gear. This can help you to maintain a safe speed and prevent your brakes from overheating specially while going down a hill. obtaining better fuel efficiency Always maintain the specified tyre pressure during fuel top-ups and also before a long trip. Vehicle run- ning with low tyre pressure will con- sume more fuel than the one running with specified tyre pressure. 107  STARTING AND DRIVING Keep the vehicle clean. Get rid of the unwanted stuff

tyre pressure. 107  STARTING AND DRIVING Keep the vehicle clean. Get rid of the unwanted stuff lying in the boot etc., to reduce weight. Regularly inspect your vehicle for any leakages, worn out wires, damaged by rat bites etc. Always follow periodic & regular ser- vice schedule of the vehicle. In places with high dust content. Clean the air filter element at every 5000 km. Anticipate the road conditions and drive in a smooth manner. Do not accelerate excessively when you are in lower gears (1* or 2"). Be gentle on the accelerator when you are in traffic. In lower gears, opening up the throttle will increase the en- gine rpm while keeping the vehicle at lower speeds. This reduces the fuel efficiency of the vehicle. Be in the maximum possible higher gear at a given speed. This reduces 108 the engine operating speeds which means the engine is running at lower rpm (Revolutions per Minute) for the same vehicle speed. Lesser the number of engine revolution lesser the fuel burned. Avoid

for the same vehicle speed. Lesser the number of engine revolution lesser the fuel burned. Avoid harsh braking. Maintain healthy driving habits & while decelerating, do coasting in gear and not in neutral or with clutch pedal pressed. Use the car AC only when you re- quire. For cooling, keep the blower speeds low, as at higher blower speeds, the AC consumes more elec- tric power which is ultimately drawn from engine by burning fuel. Avoid unnecessary extra electrical loading on the car. Stop the engine wisely at traffic sig- nals. Switch ‘OFF’ the engine at the traffic signal only if the stoppage time is high (typically more than 30 sec). e When you drive on highways, close all the windows. This reduces the drag on the vehicle and improves fuel efficiency. e Do not over speed. Follow the speed limits. With increasing speed, the en- gine rpm increases to overcome ex- ternal air resistance and this reduces fuel efficiency. Running-in period The purpose of running in a car is to give

and this reduces fuel efficiency. Running-in period The purpose of running in a car is to give time for the mechanical parts to settle so that they work efficiently. This involves gentle acceleration and not revving the engine too much. This is done by chang- ing gears early for the first 1,500 - 1,800 km. This will increase the life of the en- gine. The more you look after the engine when it is new, the more satisfied you will be with its performance in the future.  Do not exceed the following road speeds during running in period. Diesel Petrol Speed(kmph) 1 15 20 2 30 35 3 50 55 4 65 75 5 85 95 Avoid heavy loads, e.g. driving at ful throttle, during this period. Change gears judiciously. NOTE Avoid excessive rewing up of en- gine rpm. Do not keep engine at idling for long duration. Seat Adjustments Front seat adjustments Following seat adjustments can be car- ried out manually. 1. Backrest recliner adjustment lever 2. Seat height adjustment lever (if available) 3. Seat forward /

Backrest recliner adjustment lever 2. Seat height adjustment lever (if available) 3. Seat forward / rearward adjustment lever STARTING AND DRIVING WARNING Do not adjust the driver's seat while driving. Adjusting the seat while driving could cause the driver to lose control of the vehicle. 1. Seat backrest angle adjustment To change the seat back rest angle, lean forward slightly and pull up the lever (1). Adjust seat backrest until it reaches de- sired comfortable position. Make sure that lever returns to its original position and seat is securely latched. NOTE Adjust the seat backrest until your arms are slightly angled when holding the steering wheel. Do not travel in a moving vehicle with the seat backrest in an exces- sively reclined position as this can be dangerous. 109  STARTING AND DRIVING 2. Seat height adjustment (if available) To raise the seat, pull and continue pumping the lever (2) in the upward di- rection until the seat is at the desired height. To lower the seat, pump

(2) in the upward di- rection until the seat is at the desired height. To lower the seat, pump the lever down- ward until the seat is at desired height. 3. Seat forward/rearward adjust- ment Lift lever (3) and slide the seat forward or to the rear. Release lever and make sure that seat is securely latched. NOTE Adjust the driver seat position in such a way that the driver will be able to operate the control pedals comfortably. 110 Head restraint (if available) Adjust the head restraint so that it is as close to the head as possible and the center of the head restraint supports the back of the head at eye level. This will reduce the risk of injury to the head and neck in the event of an accident or simi- lar situation. | Incorrectly adjusted Do not drive the vehicle without the seat head restraints. Head re- straints are intended to help re- duce injuries during an accident. Correctly adjusted | Incorrectly adjusted  Front passenger seat sensor An occupant detection sensor is_in-

adjusted | Incorrectly adjusted  Front passenger seat sensor An occupant detection sensor is_in- stalled in the front passenger seat to de- tect whether the seat is occupied or not and if occupied, it will activate the seat belt reminder warnings. The sensor does not have any control on the deployment of airbags. Any modification in the seat material or addition of seat cover may dam- age or affect the performance of the sensor. Rear seats Rear seat folding Rear seat folding (Complete Seat 100%) To fold the seat: e Press the backrest release knobs provided on both sides at the same time. STARTING AND DRIVING Fold the backrest seat forward. Move the driver and front passenger sea forward if necessary. 111  STARTING AND DRIVING e If the rear bench seat and seat backrest are not latched properly, they could fold forwards during hard braking or in the event of a collision. e The vehicle occupant would thereby be pushed into the seat belt by the rear bench seat or by the seat backrest. The

would thereby be pushed into the seat belt by the rear bench seat or by the seat backrest. The seat belt can no longer offer the intended level of protection and could even cause injuries. * Objects or loads in the trunk can- not be restrained by the seat backrest. There is an increased risk of injury. e Before every trip, make sure that the seat backrests and the rear bench seat/rear seat are en- gaged and securely latched. 112 Rear View Mirrors Inside Rear View Mirror (IRVM) To adjust the mirror move the mirror up, down or sideways manually to obtain the best rear view. When you drive at night, set the selector tab to select anti-glare mode (if availa- ble) to reduce glare from the headlights of vehicles behind you. NOTE Use antiglare position only when necessary, as it reduces rear view clarity. Outer Rear View Mirrors (ORVM) You can adjust the outer rear view mir- rors manually (By hand) or remotely by knob. Adjust the outside rear view mir- rors to desired position. NOTE Objects

hand) or remotely by knob. Adjust the outside rear view mir- rors to desired position. NOTE Objects visible in mirror are actu- ally closer than they appear. Al- ways make sure of the actual dis- tance from the road users travel- ing behind by glancing over your shoulder.  STARTING AND DRIVING Motorized ORVM adjustment 2. Use the four positions of the knob to Manual ORVM adjustment (if available) adjust the rear view mirrors to re- (if available) quired position. The switch to adjust the motorized mir- You can adjust the outer rear view mir- rors is located on the driver’s door. You rors manually. can adjust the mirrors when the ignition switch is in the “ACC” or “ON” position. Do not adjust the mirror while driv- ing. Adjusting the mirror while driv- 1. Move the mirror selection switch to L ing could cause the driver to lose (for left side) and R (for right side) to control of the vehicle. select the mirror you wish to adjust. To adjust the mirrors: 113  STARTING AND DRIVING ORVM

select the mirror you wish to adjust. To adjust the mirrors: 113  STARTING AND DRIVING ORVM folding (as applicable) Option 1: Manual folding ORVMs can be folded or unfolded manu- ally. This is applicable only for vehicles which are not equipped with motorized folding provision. Option 2: Auto folding by smart key When you lock the vehicle, ORVMs wil be folded automatically. When you unlock the vehicle, ORVMs wil be unfolded automatically. 114 In case to repeated usage, Mirror Fold- ing/Un-folding will stop functioning and will be re-activated after delay of 2 mins. During that period avoid repeated press- ing of Switch. Option 3: Auto folding by knob To fold / unfold the ORVMs, keep the Se- lector switch in center position (i.e. nei- her ‘L’ nor ‘R, position) and then toggle down. This will operate when the ignition switch is in the “ACC” or “ON” position. Sun Visors (if available) The sun visors can be pulled down to block the glare coming through the wind- shield. To block the glare

visors can be pulled down to block the glare coming through the wind- shield. To block the glare from side windows, pull down the sun visor and release it rom retainer. Swing the sun visor to the side. Vanity mirror (if available) Vanity mirror is provided on the back of the front passenger side sun visor.  Electric Power Assisted Steering (EPAS) Your vehicle is equipped with electric power assisted steering system. The EPAS system makes steering the vehicle easier with less effort. In EPAS system, the steering effort be- comes heavier as the vehicle speed in- creases and becomes lighter as the ve- hicle speed decreases for better control of the vehicle at different vehicle speeds. If the engine is ‘OFF’ or if the EPAS sys- tem becomes inoperative, the vehicle still can be steered with more steering effort. This EPAS system is available with the following assist features 1. Speed sensitive assist control 2. Active return control STARTING AND DRIVING NOTE | WARNING A click noise may be

assist control 2. Active return control STARTING AND DRIVING NOTE | WARNING A click noise may be heard from the EPAS relay after the ignition switch is turned ON or OFF posi- tion. The steering wheel may not un- lock normally in some cases when ignition key turned ‘ON’ or ‘ISS’ button pressed. If this hap- pens, turn the steering wheel to the right or left slightly to unlock the steering wheel while turning the ignition key or pressing ISS button. Contact the nearest TATA author- ized service center if in case of the above scenarios. Below are the symptoms of the sys- tem malfunction. Then, take your vehicle to the nearest TATA MO- TORS service center and have the EPAS system checked as soon as possible. e The EPAS warning light does not illuminate. e Engine noise may be heard when the vehicle is driven at low speeds. e |f the EPAS system does not op- erate normally, the warning tight EM) will illuminate on the instrument cluster. The steer- ing wheel rotation may become difficult to

will illuminate on the instrument cluster. The steer- ing wheel rotation may become difficult to control or operate. 115  STARTING AND DRIVING Steering wheel adjustment 3. Adjust the steering wheel to the de- sired position. . e The steering effort can suddenly 4. Pull release lever up completely to increase, if the operation of the lock the steering column. EPAS system is stopped to pre- 5. Make sure that steering wheel is se- vent serious accidents when it curely locked by checking up and detects malfunction of the EPAS down direction. system during self-diagnosis. e When steering for a prolonged period, the steering effort will in- When adjusting the steering crease to prevent overheating wheel, make sure that: and damage to the steering sys- e You can operate control pedals tem. without any obstacles. You can adjust the steering wheel posi- tion to suit your convenience. e You can see all the displays in the instrument cluster clearly. The release lever is located offset to the To

all the displays in the instrument cluster clearly. The release lever is located offset to the To adjust the steering wheel Before you start the car, make sure . the steering wheel position is 1. Adjust the seat to a comfortable po- locked. Do not unlock or adjust the sition. steering wheel while the vehicle is 2. Push “Tilt lever” completely down to in motion. unlock the steering column. 116  Steering lock and ignition switch (if available) The ignition switch has the following four positions: LOCK - This is the normal parking posi- tion. Key from lock can be removed in this position only. “LOCK” position prevents normal use of the steering wheel after the key is removed. To release the steering lock, put the key in the slot and turn it clockwise to one click (ACC). ACC - Accessories such as the infotain- ment system can be operated, but the engine remains ‘OFF’. Steering gets un- locked. ON - This is the normal operating posi- tion. All electrical systems are ‘ON’. START - Turn the

ON - This is the normal operating posi- tion. All electrical systems are ‘ON’. START - Turn the key further clockwise to the START position, (spring loaded) to start the engine. As soon as the engine starts, release the ignition key, which re- turns to ON position. While cranking, all accessories will be momentarily ‘OFF’. Illuminated Key Ring (if available) When the vehicle is unlocked, the illumi- nated key ring glows. This helps to locate ignition switch in the dark. STARTING AND DRIVING Starting and stopping (without PEPS) Starting the Engine Make sure that parking brake is en- gaged and vehicle is in neutral gear. Press the clutch pedal fully and crank the engine. Do not press the accelerator pedal when starting the engine. NOTE The Starter protection system fit- ted in this vehicle does not allow you to crank the engine 3 until you fully press the DS clutch pedal. Release the key as soon as the engine starts. Repeat if engine does not start. NOTE e The Starter protection system

as soon as the engine starts. Repeat if engine does not start. NOTE e The Starter protection system switches off the starter when it is continuously cranked for more than 10 secs. In such a case, get the key back to ‘OFF’ position & wait for 30 secs. 117  STARTING AND DRIVING e For vehicle equipped with turbo- charger, after you start the en- gine, run the engine at idle speed for 30 seconds. Do not press ac- celerator pedal while starting the engine to avoid damage to the turbocharger. Starting off To start off, press the clutch pedal fully and shift into 1st gear. After releasing the parking brake, gradu- ally release the clutch and slowly press the accelerator. NOTE When shifting or starting off, do not race the engine. Racing the en- gine can shorten engine life and affect smooth shifting. Stopping the vehicle For vehicle equipped with turbocharger, turn the key to ‘ACC’ position to switch off the engine. Before switching off the 118 engine, run the engine at idle speed for 30

to switch off the engine. Before switching off the 118 engine, run the engine at idle speed for 30 seconds and then switch off. This will allow the engine oil to lubricate the tur- bocharger, till its speed is fully reduced and also allow the unit to cool down. e Do not switch off the ignition while driving. e For vehicle equipped with turbo- charger, do not switch the engine off when it is running at high speed. This will lead to premature turbocharger bearing wear. e If you switch off the ignition while driving, safety-relevant functions are only available with limita- tions, or not at all. This could af- fect the power steering and the brake boosting effect. You will re- quire considerably more effort to steer and brake. There is a risk of an accident. Starting and stopping (if available) (PEPS) Engine Passive Start/Stop Start/Stop switch is provided on the dashboard towards the right side of steering wheel. Start/Stop button The start/stop button or Push to Start Button is a main

side of steering wheel. Start/Stop button The start/stop button or Push to Start Button is a main component of Passive (Engine) Start and Stop system. It is used to control ACC, IGN outputs as well as to start and stop the engine.  NOTE e [If smart key is inside the vehicle and on pressing start stop switch, if start stop switch green LED blinks more than 10 sec. duration then contact authorized TATA MOTORS dealer. e If ESCL (Electronic Column Steer- ing Lock) is not unlocked properly, then vehicle doesn’t go into ACC mode Backup start: To start the engine when smart key bat- tery voltage is low, the user needs to press start/stop button two times with an interval of 2.5 seconds after pressing the clutch with valid smart key near im- mobilizer antenna (in Centre Console). Emergency start: If the engine is switched from ON to OFF and start/stop button is pressed with clutch pressed within 5 seconds, engine gets cranked. NOTE If ESCL (Electronic Column Steer- ing Lock) is not unlocked

5 seconds, engine gets cranked. NOTE If ESCL (Electronic Column Steer- ing Lock) is not unlocked properly, then Engine will not get cranked. STARTING AND DRIVING Engine Passive Start - conditions e Single Press Start: Bring the smart key with you and sit in the driver seat. 2. Press the clutch pedal and then press the start/stop switch. 3. Green colour LED on start/stop but- ton will turn ON. 4. Once engine is started successfully, the green colour LED on start/stop button stays ON. e Two Step Start: a) Step 1 1. Have the smart key with you and sit on the driver's seat. 2. Press the start/stop button without pressing clutch pedal. » Amber colour LED on start/stop switch turns ON. 4. Engine will remain OFF and all elec- trical equipment and infotainment system can be used. Steering is un- locked. 119  STARTING AND DRIVING b) 1. b) Step 2 Press the clutch pedal and then press start/stop button to start the engine. Green colour LED on start/stop but- ton will turn ON. Once engine start

button to start the engine. Green colour LED on start/stop but- ton will turn ON. Once engine start successfully, green colour LED on. start/stop switch will remain ON. Three Step Start: Step 1 Have the smart key with you and sit on the driver's seat. Press the start/stop button without pressing clutch pedal. Amber colour LED on start/stop but- ton will turn ON. Limited information will be displayed on instrument cluster and steering will be unlocked. Engine remains OFF. Step 2 Press the start/stop button without pressing clutch pedal again. 120 Green colour LED on start/stop but- ton will turn ON. Engine will remain OFF but all electri- cal equipment and infotainment sys- tem can be used. Step 3 . Press the clutch pedal and then press start/stop button to start the engine. Green colour LED on start/stop but- ton will turn ON. Once the engine is started success- fully, the green colour LED on start/stop button stays ON. Engine Passive Stop - conditions 1. Single Press Stop: IGN is ON

LED on start/stop button stays ON. Engine Passive Stop - conditions 1. Single Press Stop: IGN is ON and engine is running. Press the start/stop button with or without clutch. ACC and IGN turns OFF. LED on start/stop switch turns OFF. 2. Single Long Press Stop: e IGN is ON and engine is running. e Vehicle is in running condition i.e. wheel rpm >10 RPM or wheel sensor faulty. e Press the start/stop button for more than three seconds. e IGN returns OFF, ACC remains ON. e Amber colour LED on start/stop switch turns ON. When vehicle is in OFF mode (ACC, IGN and Crank OFF) and user tries to lock the vehicle from outside by pressing any door handle switch and if PEPS detects that the smart key is left inside the vehicle, an au- dio warning/ chime is sounded.  STARTING AND DRIVING PEPS - Wearable Key (if available) PEPS Features e Youcanwearitonwristanddrivethe (a) Passive Entry car (ease of carrying and usage). Entry in Vehicle through Driver Door: e The key fob performs dual functions of

carrying and usage). Entry in Vehicle through Driver Door: e The key fob performs dual functions of passive entry/exit and passive start (similar functions of UID). e Wearable device will work with PEPS vehicle only and it is an add-on de- vice along with the smart key. Tailgate switch (b) Passive exit Exit from Vehicle through Driver Door e Stop the car and turn off the ignition. Press driver door handle button along with valid wearable key fob withinthe au. ® Come out of the vehicle and close thentication range of 1.2 m. the door. e Press the driver door handle button along with valid wearable key fob Tailgate opening of vehicle: e Press tailgate handle button along within the authentication range of with valid wearable key fob within the 1.2m. authentication range of 1.2 m. . UID (Smart Key) Wearable Key 8 ¢ Vehicle get locked. 121  STARTING AND DRIVING Engine Passive Start — conditions Single Press Start: Bring the smart key with you and sit in the driver seat. Press the clutch

Single Press Start: Bring the smart key with you and sit in the driver seat. Press the clutch pedal and then press the start/stop switch. . Green colour LED on start/stop but- ton will turn ON. . Once engine is started successfully, the green colour LED on start/stop button stays ON. 122 Two Step Start: Step 1 Have the smart key with you and sit on the driver's seat. Press the start/stop button without pressing clutch pedal. Amber colour LED on start/stop switch turns ON. Engine will remain OFF and all elec- trical equipment and infotainment system can be used. Steering is un- locked. Step 2 Press the clutch pedal and then press start/stop button to start the engine. Green colour LED on start/stop but- ton will turn ON. Once engine start successfully, green colour LED on start/stop switch will remain ON. b) Three Step Start: Step 1 Have the smart key with you and sit on the driver's seat. Press the start/stop button without pressing clutch pedal. Amber colour LED on start/stop but-

Press the start/stop button without pressing clutch pedal. Amber colour LED on start/stop but- ton will turn ON. Limited information will be displayed on instrument cluster and steering will be unlocked. Engine remains OFF. Step 2 Press the start/stop button without pressing clutch pedal again. Green colour LED on start/stop but- ton will turn ON. Engine will remain OFF but all electri- cal equipment and infotainment sys- tem can be used.  c) Step 3 1. Press the clutch pedal and then press start/stop button to start the engine. Green colour LED on start/stop but- ton will turn ON. Once the engine is started success- fully, the green colour LED on start/stop button stays ON. Backup Start If wearable key fob's battery is low or drained, kindly refer the battery re- placement procedure of key fob in maintenance section. Customer should always carry the key fob along with wearable key. In this condition, customer has to keep the key fob in center console antenna (refer below image). To

this condition, customer has to keep the key fob in center console antenna (refer below image). To start the engine when the weara- ble key fob's battery voltage is low or empty, user needs to press start/stop button two times with in- terval of 2.5 seconds along with the clutch. Engine will get cranked. Engine Passive Stop - conditions 1. Single Press Stop: IGN is ON and engine is running. Press the start/stop button with or without clutch. STARTING AND DRIVING ACC and IGN turns OFF. LED on start/stop switch turns OFF. . Single Long Press Stop: IGN is ON and engine is running. Vehicle is in running condition i.e. wheel rpm >10 RPM or wheel sensor faulty. Press the start/stop button for more than three seconds. IGN returns OFF, ACC remains ON. Amber colour LED on start/stop switch turns ON. When vehicle is in OFF mode (ACC, IGN and Crank OFF) and user tries to lock the vehicle from outside by pressing any door handle switch and if PEPS detects that the smart key is left inside the

by pressing any door handle switch and if PEPS detects that the smart key is left inside the vehicle, an au- dio warning/ chime is sounded. 123  STARTING AND DRIVING Gear Shifting Authorized Dealer/Service Cen- Reverse gear WB To engage reverse gear, shift to reverse ¢ Press the clutch fully when gear position as shown on the gear lever shifting. The reverse gear should knob. be engaged only when the vehi- cle is stationary. e Use the clutch only to shift gears and do not use it when vehicle is stationary on a slope, as the car will roll down due to gravity. e If all doors are closed when the vehicle is in ACC/IGN/RUN mode and if PEPS does not detect the The gearshift pattern is as shown on the smart key inside the car, then an gear lever knob. Gear shifting should al- audio warning is given. ways be done with the clutch pedal fully © Donot rest your hand on the shift pressed. lever during driving; Pressure transmitted from your hand may result in premature wear of the e Gear

during driving; Pressure transmitted from your hand may result in premature wear of the e Gear recommendation is dis- transaxle internal gear shift played when the clutch pedal is mechanism fully released. e If “F” is displayed in DIS of instru- ment cluster, it means ‘Fault’ condition. Contact TATA MOTORS 124  Driving Climbing Sharp Gradients on Loose Surfaces Start off smoothly in a suitable gear. Ac- celerate smoothly so that there is no loss of traction by over-revving of the engine. Choose a smooth slope and select the appropriate gear so that gear changing in the middle of the climb is not required. Changing gears in the middle of the climb can cause loss of momentum and engine stalling. Shifting to lower gear has to be done cautiously to avoid loss of traction. Under no conditions should the vehicle be moved diagonally across a hill. The danger is in loss of traction and sideways slippage, possibly resulting in toppling over. If unavoidable, choose a mild angle and keep the

slippage, possibly resulting in toppling over. If unavoidable, choose a mild angle and keep the vehicle moving. If the tyres start to slip within few feet at the end of the climb, keep the vehicle stable by steering left and right. It gives increased grip to the tyres. If the vehicle stalls or losses headway while climbing a steep hill, make a quick shift to reverse and allow the vehicle to move back with the help of engine brak- ing. Descending Sharp Gradients Depending on the severity of the gradi- ent, shift into appropriate gear. Use en- gine braking judiciously without over-rev- ving the engine. Brake gently in such situations. When descending on sharp gradi- ents, do not turn the ignition key to the ‘OFF’ position. The braking as- sist and steering assist may mal- function and the emission control system may be damaged. STARTING AND DRIVING Starting the Engine Make sure that parking brake is en- gaged and vehicle is in neutral gear. Press the clutch pedal fully and crank the

brake is en- gaged and vehicle is in neutral gear. Press the clutch pedal fully and crank the engine. Do not press the accelerator pedal when starting the engine. Release the key as soon as the engine starts. Repeat if engine does not start. The engine emits poisonous ex- haust gases such as carbon mon- oxide. Inhaling these exhaust gases leads to poisoning. There is a risk of serious health problems. Therefore, never leave the engine running in enclosed spaces with- out sufficient ventilation. NOTE After starting, run the engine in idle speed for at least 30 seconds. Do not press accelerator pedal while starting the engine to avoid damage to turbocharger. 125  STARTING AND DRIVING Braking Your vehicle has vacuum assisted brakes. The distance needed to bring the vehicle to a halt increases with the speed of the vehicle. Start applying brake anticipating the distance and slow down gradually. e Do not use the brake pedal as a footrest. e If you rest your foot on the brake pedal while

e Do not use the brake pedal as a footrest. e If you rest your foot on the brake pedal while driving, the braking system can overheat and cause fading of brake pads. This in- creases the stopping distance and can even cause the braking system to fail. There is a risk of an accident. e Do not press the brake pedal and the accelerator pedal at the same time. 126 If you have driven for a long time in heavy rain without braking, there may be a delayed reaction from the brakes when you brake for the first time. This may also occur after the vehicle has been washed. Brake performance may become poor and unpredictable if brakes are wet. After you drive through water or if you wash the underside of the vehicle, test the brakes at slow speeds to see if the brakes work fine. If the brakes are less effective than normal, dry them by re- peatedly applying the brakes at slow speeds until the brakes have regained their normal effectiveness. Check traffic conditions before doing the above activity.

have regained their normal effectiveness. Check traffic conditions before doing the above activity. Braking on downhill gradients When you drive on downhill slopes, re- duce the load on the brakes by shifting to a lower gear. This is called as engine braking and aids to reduce overheating and wear of brakes. e Do not shift to lower gears on a slippery road surface to increase the engine's braking effect. By do- ing so, the tyres could lose their grip. e There is an increased danger of skidding and accidents.  STARTING AND DRIVING Drive Mode Variant wise applicable drive modes are Current gear indication as below: The Driver Information display (DIS) in the Instrument Cluster indicates the cur- Engine Mode 1 | Mode 2 = (Default) rent gear position engaged. or Diesel City Eco Gear recommendation Petrol City Eco Up or down arrow will be displayed in DIS, recommending whenever gear should be shifted to up or down QO Wor Ei Drive mode selection switch Increased engine Torque These modes

be shifted to up or down QO Wor Ei Drive mode selection switch Increased engine Torque These modes can be used to adjust en- and Power output for gine characteristics and vehicle perfor- S| BALANCED perfor- mance in line with desired requirement. mance Opti ine Te Drive mode selection switch is provided ECO and Power output. for on center console for activation. bel FUEL EFFICIENT perfor- mance According Engine type the car is equipped with ‘City’ (Default) and ‘Eco’. City is being default mode in each igni- tion cycle. 127  STARTING AND DRIVING Idle Stop Start (ISS) (if available) Idle Stop Start system is a Green Envi- ronment initiative. Your vehicle is equipped with fuel saving ISS feature to shut off the engine to con- serve fuel and emit less carbon dioxide. 128 OS» m»€ Engine run vehicle standstill Vehicle exceeds velocity threshold »R >» » % »F Brake pedal Clutch pedal i d is pressed ho ea vehicle in standstill »*%» Gear lever Engine Clutch pedal Engine is in neutral Auto Stop

ho ea vehicle in standstill »*%» Gear lever Engine Clutch pedal Engine is in neutral Auto Stop is pressed is started clutch released ISS function Working Sequence of functions Starting the vehicle initially will be by conventional method (key start or push button start). When the vehicle is sta- tionary and engine is idle (in a traffic light, traffic jam, toll gate, etc.) it will turn-off automatically. When the clutch pedal is pressed, the engine will restart automatically. Engine may also restart automatically without Clutch pedal press due to other preconditions which are captured below. 1. Vehicle started through Ignition key or Push button switch. 2. Vehicle is in standstill and Engine is running. 3. Vehicle moves forward and exceeds speed threshold values. 4. When vehicle is to be stopped (sce- nario: Red signal), press the brake and then, press the clutch. The vehi- cle comes to a halt. Shift the gear to  neutral and release the clutch. En- gine will be automatically stopped.

a halt. Shift the gear to  neutral and release the clutch. En- gine will be automatically stopped. 5. When you want to move (Scenario: Green signal), Press Clutch pedal to start. 6. Engine will automatically start when Clutch is pressed fully. This system enables the ISS functions automatically when Ignition is turned ON. If you do not want to use this fea- ture, you can switch it off by pressing the ISS OFF switch provided in the vehicle. (A) OFF Following conditions will prevent ISS function standby / not enabled e Engine hood (bonnet) is open e Reverse Gear is engaged. e Outside temperature is too low or too high e Battery system is unhealthy. e Engine coolant temperature is too low Driver presence is not detected (Seat belt is not fastened) e Driver door is open e Any system fault STARTING AND DRIVING ® Auto Start-Stop Auto Stop Disabled Low Coolant Temperature ODO 3252 km Warning light will be displayed on the in- strument cluster to indicate the heathy status of this function.

light will be displayed on the in- strument cluster to indicate the heathy status of this function. 129  STARTING AND DRIVING Special feature of Automatic Restart This system is equipped with a special feature of Automatic Restart. Under cer- tain conditions, the Engine will automat- ically restart on its own in order to meet your Safety and Comfort requirements. This can occur especially when the vehi- cle is standstill and following conditions occurred, e Battery is being discharged too low. e Vehicle started rolling forwards/ backwards e Brake has been pressed repeatedly for several times/brake Pressure too low e When the Cabin temperature is too hot/too cold e Defrost button is pressed e Your vehicle is equipped with ISS function which may automati- 130 cally Stop and Restart the en- gine. Do not panic and follow the messages on the display to un- derstand the event. Use an alternator that has been approved by Tata Motors. Other- wise your ISS function may not work. Contact

that has been approved by Tata Motors. Other- wise your ISS function may not work. Contact nearest Tata Mo- tors authorized dealer for alter- nator replacement. ISS will be available only when driver's seat belt is fastened at all times. Use a battery that has been ap- proved by Tata Motors. Other- wise your ISS function may not work as intended. Contact near- est Tata Motors authorised dealer for battery replacement or any issues in battery. ISS function may not be active when the Safety (Example: Seat Belt) and Comfort (Example: AC in high demand) conditions are not met. Do not panic and follow the messages on the display to understand the event. Do not remove the Battery Sen- sor from Battery. Removal of Bat- tery sensor will result loss of function. Function will be auto- matically restored when the vehi- cle is parked for a period of three hours. In the event of traffic, ISS func- tion may work with delay in auto- stop which is intended logic. Use a battery sensor that has been

tion may work with delay in auto- stop which is intended logic. Use a battery sensor that has been approved by Tata Motors. Otherwise your ISS function may not work as intended. Contact nearest Tata Motors authorized dealer for battery sensor replace- ment. Engine will be automatically started again when the following safety conditions are met: driver presence, gear in neutral, bon- net and doors should be closed. In case if any of these criteria are  not met, a message will pop-up on the screen to indicate the user to start the car manually. e To fill up fuel, the engine must be stopped by turning OFF the igni- tion key / ISS button. e Switch the engine off before you perform any operation in the en- gine compartment. Frequently Asked Questions 1. What are the advantages of this fea- ture? This feature helps to reduce the fuel con- sumption, CO2 emission by automati- cally shutting down the Engine when the Vehicle is in standstill conditions like traffic signal, Traffic jam, etc. 2.

the Engine when the Vehicle is in standstill conditions like traffic signal, Traffic jam, etc. 2. When the Vehicle is in Engine Idle stop start Phase, how can | start the Vehicle to move? Simply press the Clutch fully down to Start the Vehicle. No need to use Key / Push Start Switch. 3. Can | start the Engine only by pressing the Clutch Pedal for the first time when | enter in Vehicle? No. Always the first start has to be through Ignition Key or Push button. 4. How can | activate / deactivate this feature? This feature will be active as default when Ignition is ON. If you wish to switch it OFF, press the ISS switch. 5. Whether AC will work when the En- gine is in Idle stop start mode? No. AC function will not be available when the Engine is in Idle stop start mode. Only Blower will be functional. 6. How to start the Engine if feeling too hot / too cold when Engine is in Idle stop start mode? In the event of higher temperature differ- ence, Engine will automatically restart without any

In the event of higher temperature differ- ence, Engine will automatically restart without any user input. As an alternate user can start the Vehicle by pressing the Clutch pedal fully. STARTING AND DRIVING 7. What will happen If press the Clutch continuously in traffic signals? System will not shut down the Engine au- tomatically when the Clutch is pressed continuously. 8. Whether | am allowed to crank the Vehicle normally when the system is in Idle stop start mode? Yes. You can perform the normal crank- ing by switching off and Switch ON the Ignition Key / Push button. 9. Whether the vehicle will stop and restart when the Vehicle in Gear con- dition? No. Idle Stop and Start function will not work when the Gear level is not in Neu- tral. Smart Alternator Management. Smart Alternator management (applica- ble if equipped with Intelligent Alternator Control feature) - a Green Environment initiative. 131  STARTING AND DRIVING Your vehicle is equipped with fuel saving Y > smart alternator

131  STARTING AND DRIVING Your vehicle is equipped with fuel saving Y > smart alternator management system to recuperate the brake energy to charge the Battery to help conserve fuel, CO2. Working When the Vehicle is running, if the accel- eration demand is higher than threshold, smart alternator management system will allow the Battery discharge to reduce the load on the Engine. When the Vehicle is in deceleration and the accelerator demand is lower than threshold, smart alternator manage- ment system recuperates the brake en- ergy and charges the Battery. Battery discharge and charge behavior is dynamic behavior during the Vehicle run- ning. Following conditions will prevent Smart Alternator function standby / not enabled, e Head Lamp ON (Low / High) e Battery System is unhealthy e Any System fault. 132 Accelerator Clutch pedal pressed _— closed “%, Eis >> Accelerator Clutch pedal released closed Alternator set point 11.2V 14.8V Alternator set point 14.8V t Battery is discharged t

closed Alternator set point 11.2V 14.8V Alternator set point 14.8V t Battery is discharged t Battery is charged Alternator function  Frequently Asked Questions 1. What are the advantages of this fea- ture? This feature helps to reduce the fuel con- sumption, CO2 emission by balancing the Battery discharge and charge during the Vehicle running. 2. Do | need to adjust my driving pat- tern to enable this function? No. This smart function will automati- cally perform this smart alternator func- tion and adjust to your driving pattern. 3. Is there any issue to my Battery charging due to this function when | follow aggressive driving cycle? No. This smart function is capable enough to manage the Battery charging according to your drive cycle. 4. Do I see any variation in my head lamp performance when the Battery charge / discharge behavior which is dynamic? No. This smart function will accommo- date the charge / discharge behavior ac- cording to the head lamp status. 5. Do | see any

accommo- date the charge / discharge behavior ac- cording to the head lamp status. 5. Do | see any perceivable variation in my system function when this func- tion executed? No. This smart function won’t create any functional issue to the vehicle system. You may see some difference in air flow of blower when it is in higher speed when this function is active. But this won’t af- fect the quality of the vehicle function. WARNING Deactivate the Idle Stop Start (ISS) function for any operation to be performed in the Engine compart- ment. STARTING AND DRIVING Parking Brake Mechanical parking brake acting on the rear wheels is provided on the vehicle. Parking brake applied To apply the parking brake, pull the lever up fully. The parking brake tell-tale light comes on in the instrument cluster. 133  STARTING AND DRIVING : = — Parking brake released To release it, pull the lever up slightly, press the release button and push the lever down. The parking brake tell-tale in the instrument

press the release button and push the lever down. The parking brake tell-tale in the instrument cluster will turn ‘OFF’ when the lever is fully released. NOTE Apply the parking brake properly before leaving the vehicle and re- lease it before moving. 134 Vehicle parking Park the vehicle in a safe place. Switch on the indicator signal before turning to park. Apply the parking brake. Make sure that all window glasses are closed and all lamps are turned ‘OFF’. At night, put on the parking lights if required. Remove the key from the ignition switch and lock the vehicle. Use wheel chocks if the vehicle is parked on a slope. NOTE When parking on a downhill gradi- ent, place the gear lever in ‘Reverse’ position. While parking on uphill gradient, place the gear lever in the ‘1st’ position. Never leave children unsupervised in the parked vehicle. They could also operate the vehicle's equip- ment. There is a risk of an accident and injury. NOTE Do not use parking brake for brak- ing unless

ment. There is a risk of an accident and injury. NOTE Do not use parking brake for brak- ing unless unavoidable circum- stances like when service brake is not working properly. The braking distance is considerably longer and the wheels could lock. There is an increased danger of skidding and accidents.  Reverse Park Assist with sensor (if available) Reverse Park Assist system is an elec- tronic parking aid that will assist you to park your vehicle safely when in reverse gear mode. It provides audio and visual information through the vehicles info- tainment system. Always look out for kids, pets and elderly people behind the vehicle before revers- ing. There are ultrasonic sensors placed in on the rear bumper. Number of sensors may vary depending on the variant. Once the system is activated, the sen- sors will detect how near the obstacle is from the bumper, and this information is would be displayed on the vehicle's info- tainment system. In base variants, only audio warning shall be

be displayed on the vehicle's info- tainment system. In base variants, only audio warning shall be given through a buzzer. When the Reverse Park Assist system activated, an audio will be heard for the first two seconds to indicate that the sys- tem is working fine. After that, system will resume its usual function. If no audio warning is heard for first two seconds, it means that RPAS system is faulty. Please take the vehicle to your nearest TATA MOTORS authorized service cen- ter. Due to ultrasonic sensor technol- ogy limitation, detection of obsta- cles from 0-25 cm is not guaran- teed. STARTING AND DRIVING Approximate A Tone distance from 9 fe Information Bumper (in cm) 25-40 Continuous Beep 41-80 Fast Beep 81-120 Slow Beep Variant where infotainment display is not present and audio warning is given through a buzzer, on activating the Re- verse Park Assist system, a tone will be played within first two seconds to indi- cate the proper functioning of the sys- tem. After these two

within first two seconds to indi- cate the proper functioning of the sys- tem. After these two seconds, normal functioning of the system will continue. If no tone is heard for first two seconds, it shall mean that RPAS system is faulty. The owner should, in that case, go to the nearest dealer for rectification. 135  STARTING AND DRIVING Park assist indications In case reverse park assist system mal- functions, the following message may appear on the infotainment screen. Reason for this fault may be a. Park Assist Controller / Body Control Module Failure" b. Sensor Malfunction c. Partner components such as Info- tainment music system, Instrument Cluster failure. 4. CRITICAL FAU Sd Park Assist system not available get it rectified by TATA Dealer 136 Reverse park assist limitations Reverse Park Assist system is not a colli- sion avoiding system. It is solely the driver’s responsibility to park the vehicle safely. Reverse Park Assist feature works on ul- tra sound echo technology, due to

park the vehicle safely. Reverse Park Assist feature works on ul- tra sound echo technology, due to which performance is not guaranteed in follow- ing scenarios: e If the object has a sharp edge sur- face, where surface may divert ech- oes from sensor reception. e If object is mesh fence made up of thin wires, where echoes can’t be given by the surface. e Fast moving objects passes in the sensor’s field of detection, where echoes are not processed by the sys- tem. e If object is made/covered by foam or sponge or snow where ultrasonic sound signals are absorbed. e Objects close to the rear bumper can go undetected by the Reverse Park Assist’s field of detection. Driver should use extreme caution while parking the vehicle. If height of the bumper is changed due to alteration to the suspension or other causes if the sensor areas are extremely hot rom direct sunlight or cold due to reezing weather. lf Sensors are covered by a hand, sticker, accessory, etc. if ultrasonic noise is present

weather. lf Sensors are covered by a hand, sticker, accessory, etc. if ultrasonic noise is present around Vehicle due to other vehicle sensors, orn, engine, air braking system (large vehicles), Exhaust Fans, Wire- less transmitters or mobile phones if the vehicle speed exceeds 10kmph, the system will not warn you even though objects are de- tected, error message ‘Vehicle Speed is high, drive slowly!' will ap- pear. Driving on uneven road surfaces e.g. Gravel, unpaved roads, Artificial Speed Breakers, or gradient.  WARNING Due to any reason, if the sensor gets misaligned or loses its in- tended fitment position, contact your dealer for refitment. NOTE Turning the ignition ‘OFF’ ‘while the park assist feature is active would disable it. Reverse park assist system preven- tive maintenance e Regularly clean the sensors and keep them free from dust, ice, mud, water, chewing gum etc. for proper working of the system. Use a smooth cloth for cleaning. e Do not use water at high pressure for

working of the system. Use a smooth cloth for cleaning. e Do not use water at high pressure for cleaning the sensor or camera. e Do not cover the sensors surface with any additional fitment. This will interrupt park assist performance. Rear View Camera (if available) Rear View Camera is a visual reverse guiding system. When reversing or park- ing, make sure that there are no per- sons, animals or objects in the area where you are reversing. STARTING AND DRIVING Display screen Activation Reverse gear This system will start, if reverse gear is engaged, or park assist button (if availa- ble) is pressed or manual activation is done through Infotainment screen. Deactivation System will stop, if reverse gear is disen- gaged, or park assist button (if available) is pressed. 137  STARTING AND DRIVING If started through infotainment, the sys- tem can be stopped using a cross button on infotainment screen. Understanding Guidelines Indica- tion Green Line You can safely reverse the vehicle, but

screen. Understanding Guidelines Indica- tion Green Line You can safely reverse the vehicle, but be cautious if objects fall in this zone. Yellow Line You have to take utmost care if objects fall in this zone. However, the objects may not hit vehicle. Red Line Red line indicates that you have to stop reversing the vehicle. If you still go back- wards, the car will hit the obstacle. 138 Do’s and don’t Do not use camera when tailgate is open. If tailgate is open, visual infor- mation may not be the actual rear view of the vehicle & system will warn with message 'Tail Gate Open, Please close. When the camera is operated under fluorescent lights, sodium light or mercury light etc., illuminated areas on the lens may appear to flicker in the display. Do not attach any advertisement or styling or any kind of stickers on top of camera. If this happens, camera cannot provide you the visual image and it may damage the camera. Do not add any accessory, which will cause blockage to the camera’s

and it may damage the camera. Do not add any accessory, which will cause blockage to the camera’s field of view. Cleaning camera 1. Due to environmental reasons like snow, dust, mud or fog may accumu- late on the camera lens. So regularly clean the camera lens. Use water to clean the camera lens. Do not use extreme cold or hot water. Rapid changes in temperature may brittle the camera lens. Do not apply High Pressure water for cleaning. Wipe the camera lens with soft cloth. Do not use hard cloth or material to wipe the camera lens. This will cause scratches on the camera, and leads to deteriorated visual image on the display. Do not apply organic solvent, car wax, window cleaner or glass coat to clean the camera. If this is applied, wipe it off as soon as possible. Do not apply heavy force on lens, while cleaning.  7. Do not remove mud, snow on the camera lens using stick or hard ma- terial. Use normal water and soft cloth. The camera uses fish eye lens. So the size of the objects or

Use normal water and soft cloth. The camera uses fish eye lens. So the size of the objects or in the display may differ from the actual size and distance. In low light conditions, the screen may darken or image may appear faint. If the tire sizes are changed, the position of the fixed guidelines displayed on the screen may change. During rainy conditions, image may get obscured. In such condi- tions, do not depend on camera view. The camera used in the ve- hicle, may not reproduce the same color of the real object. In case of damage of the rear por- tion of the vehicle, camera posi- tion may change. Which causes wrong visual information on dis- play. In case of damage, make sure that, camera is fitted properly at the intended location. In case of uneven road condi- tions or up-hill or downhill condi- tions, do not depend on rear view camera park aid. Do not apply any kind of force on the camera. Always use rear View mirrors along with Rear View Camera for confirming the safety of the

camera. Always use rear View mirrors along with Rear View Camera for confirming the safety of the rear and the surrounding conditions. High humidity and variation in ambient temperature may result into condensation inside the camera lens, which may further result into degradation of camera video feed on the screen. It is rec- ommended that not to rely on STARTING AND DRIVING camera video feed for parking as- sistance in such scenario. This phenomenon is temporary and will be automatically recovered with reduction in humidity and less variation in ambient temper- ature. The area displayed by the rear view camera is limited. The cam- era does not display objects that are close to or below the bumper, underneath the vehicle, or ob- jects out of the camera’s field of view. The area displayed on the screen may vary according to ve- hicle orientation or road condi- tions. 139  STARTING AND DRIVING Rear view camera system pre- cautions 1. Area displayed on screen The rear view camera system

Rear view camera system pre- cautions 1. Area displayed on screen The rear view camera system displays an image of the view from the bumper of the rear area of the vehicle. The area displayed on the screen may vary according to vehicle orien- tation conditions. Objects, which are close to either cor- ner of the bumper or under the bumper, cannot be seen on the screen. The camera uses a special lens. The distance of the image that appears on the screen differs from the actual distance. The camera may not dis- play items that are located higher than the camera’s field of view. . When sharp up gradient behind the vehicle 3. When sharp down gradient be- hind the vehicle  The distance guidelines will ap- pear to be further from the vehicle than the actual distance. Because of this, objects will ap- pear to be closer than they actually are. In the same way, there will be a margin of error between the guidelines and the actual dis- tance/course on the road. 4. When any part of the vehicle

the guidelines and the actual dis- tance/course on the road. 4. When any part of the vehicle sags A margin of error When any part of the vehicle sags due to the number of passengers or the distri- bution of the load, there is a margin of error between the fixed guide lines on the screen and the actual dis- tance/course on the road. 5. When approaching three-dimen- sional objects The distance guidelines are displayed according to flat surfaced objects (such as the road). It is not possible to deter- mine the position of three-dimensional STARTING AND DRIVING objects (such as vehicles) using the dis- tance guidelines. When approaching a three-dimensional object a. Distance guidelines sd 0®@ 141  STARTING AND DRIVING Visually check the surroundings and the area behind the vehicle. On the screen, it appears that a truck is parked at point B. However, in reality if you back up to point A, you will hit the truck. On the screen, it appears that A is closest and C is furthest away. However,

will hit the truck. On the screen, it appears that A is closest and C is furthest away. However, in reality, the distance to A and C is the same, and B is further away from A and C. b. Vehicle width guidelines 142 Visually check the surroundings and the area behind the vehicle. In the case shown below, the truck appears to be outside of the vehicle width guidelines and the vehicle does not look as if it hits the truck. However, the rear body of the truck may actually cross over the vehicle width guidelines. In reality if you back up as guided by the vehicle width guide- lines, the vehicle may hit the truck.  Emergency Equipment You should be familiar with the location of the emergency equipment provided in the vehicle and how to use it. Do a check of this equipment periodi- cally and make sure that they are in proper working condition and stowed at their locations. First aid kit The first aid kit is kept inside the glove box compartment. The kit contains items that can be used in case

aid kit is kept inside the glove box compartment. The kit contains items that can be used in case of minor injuries only. NOTE Examine contents of the first aid kit periodically and replenish con- sumed or expired items. EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Tool kit, tow hook, jack and spare wheel Tool kit and Jack are accommodated in foam Tool tray located in the rear boot. Tool kit contains Jack handle Tow hook Wheel spanner Jack Spare wheel Foam tool tray Oar wns NOTE The jack should be used only to change wheels. It is important to read the instructions in this sec- tion before attempting to use the jack. Advance Warning Triangle An advance warning triangle is kept in the luggage compartment beside the spare wheel. 143  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Use advance warning triangle to warn the approaching traffic in case of vehicle break-down or during emergency, where your vehicle could become a potentia traffic hazard. Keep the warning triangle at an approxi- mate distance of

could become a potentia traffic hazard. Keep the warning triangle at an approxi- mate distance of 50-150 m behind your vehicle in the same lane of traffic. The reflecting side of the triangle should face the oncoming traffic and it should be free from any obstacles. 144 Remove the advance warning triangle carefully from the bag and assemble. Re- fer instructions given on the bag. NOTE After using the warning triangle tie it firmly and keep it inside the bag to avoid rattling noise. Hazard Warning Switch Press the hazard warning switch to acti- vate the hazard warning. All the turn sig- nal lamps will flash simultaneously. To turn OFF, press the switch again. Use the hazard warning to warn the traf- fic during emergency parking or when your vehicle could otherwise become a traffic hazard. The hazard warning lamps can operate even if the ignition is switched off.  Spare Wheel removal process e To access the spare wheel, lift the carpet up. e After lifting, hold the carpet to access the

e To access the spare wheel, lift the carpet up. e After lifting, hold the carpet to access the spare wheel. EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE e Remove the Tool tray along with con- tents. Take out the advance warning trian- gle kept beside the spare wheel. e To remove the spare wheel, unscrew and remove the retaining bolt. 145  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE In Case of Flat Tyre Reduce vehicle speed gradually, Avoid sudden steering movement or braking. Pay attention to the traffic conditions as you do so. Switch on the hazard warning lamps. If possible, bring the front wheels into the straight-ahead position. Stop the vehicle on solid, non-slip- pery and level ground, as far away as possible from traffic. Set the parking brake firmly and shift into “R” (Reverse) gear. Switch off the engine. Secure the vehicle against rolling away. Keep advance warning triangle at a suitable distance behind the vehicle as an indication of breakdown. Close all the doors. 146 e Use the Jack on

behind the vehicle as an indication of breakdown. Close all the doors. 146 e Use the Jack on level, hard ground. Avoid changing the wheel on uphill and downhill slopes. Chock the wheels, if the deflated wheel needs to be changed on slope / ghat area. If you drive with a flat tyre, there is a risk of the following hazards: e A flat tyre affects the ability to steer or brake the vehicle. e You could lose control of the vehicle. e Continued driving with a flat tyre will permanently damage the tyre and cause excessive heat buildup and possibly a fire. There is a risk of an acci- dent. Changing flat tyre Loosen the nuts (as indicated) on the wheel in diagonal sequence. Do not un- screw the nuts completely before raising the vehicle using the jack. Wheel nut removal  NOTE e The jack is designed only to raise and hold the vehicle for a short time while a wheel is being changed. It is not suited for per- forming maintenance work under the vehicle. e Use the jack on level, hard ground. Avoid

for per- forming maintenance work under the vehicle. e Use the jack on level, hard ground. Avoid changing the wheel on uphill and downhill slopes. Chock the wheels, if the deflated wheel needs to be changed on slope / ghat area. e Before raising the vehicle, secure it from rolling away by applying the parking brake. e Donot use wooden blocks or sim- ilar objects as a jack underlay. e Do not place your hands and feet or lie under the raised vehicle when it is supported by a jack. e Do not run the engine when the vehicle is supported by the jack EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Jack up point location on vehicle and never allow passengers to re- main in the vehicle. e Donot open or close a door or the tailgate when the vehicle is raised. Assemble the Jack handle and wheel spanner (as shown in fig.) Position the jack vertically and raise it by turning the jack handle clockwise until the jack sits completely on the specified point and the base of the jack lies evenly on the ground. The

jack sits completely on the specified point and the base of the jack lies evenly on the ground. The jack up points are indicated by cut- outs on the front and rear. = is ia} a < Ss 3 g. 5 2 roy fe} 2 = 3 Jacking point location  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE If you do not position the jack cor- rectly at the appropriate jacking point of the vehicle, the jack could tip over with the vehicle raised. There is a risk of injury. Also jack can be damaged. Continue to raise the jack slowly and smoothly until the tyre clears the ground. Do not raise the vehicle more than re- quired. Lifting the front wheel using jack 148 Lifting the rear wheel using jack Remove wheel nuts with the help o' wheel spanner and take out flat tyre. NOTE Do not place wheel nuts in sand or on a dirty surface. Do not apply oil or grease on it. Roll the spare wheel into position and align the holes in the wheel studs. Tighten each nut by hand until the wheel is securely seated on the hub. Lower the jack completely

Tighten each nut by hand until the wheel is securely seated on the hub. Lower the jack completely then tighten the wheel nuts one by one using wheel spanner. Press fit the wheel cover back (if fitted). Restore all the tools and jack at their re- spective locations. Place the flat tyre at spare wheel location. NOTE e Do a check and correct the tyre pressure and wheel nuts tight- ness of the changed wheel at nearest authorised service sta- tion. Get the flat tyre repaired at the earliest e Place the jack only at recom- mended jacking locations.  Jump starting your car For Diesel, Petrol NA Non IAC/ISS variants. Use only a battery of same rating & ca- pacity to jump start your vehicle. Position the booster battery close to your vehicle so that the jump leads will reach both batteries. When using a battery of another vehicle, do not let the vehicles touch. Apply the parking brake firmly and keep the gear- shift lever in neutral. Turn off all vehicle accessories, except those necessary for

keep the gear- shift lever in neutral. Turn off all vehicle accessories, except those necessary for safety like hazard warning lamps. Make jump lead connections as follows: e Connect one end of the first jump lead to the positive (+) terminal of the discharged battery. e Connect the other end to the positive (+) terminal of the booster battery. EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Connect one end of the second jump lead to the negative (-) terminal of the booster battery. Make the final connection (other end of the negative terminal) to an un- painted, heavy metal part (i.e. engine mounting stud/nut) of the vehicle o discharged battery. Connect the cable in numerical order & disconnoct in reverse order. Booster Battery Discharge Battery Unpainted Metal (Engine) part of vehicle with discharged battery Start the engine of the vehicle with the discharged battery. Before disconnecting the jumper ca- bles, let the engine run for severa minutes. e If the booster battery you are using is

jumper ca- bles, let the engine run for severa minutes. e If the booster battery you are using is fitted to another vehicle, start the en- gine of the vehicle with the booster battery. Run the engine at moderate speed. Remove the jump leads in the exact reverse order in which you connected them. NOTE Do not disconnect the discharged battery from the vehicle. e Do not connect the jump lead di- rectly to the negative (-) terminal of the discharged battery. This may lead to an explosion. e Do not allow battery electrolyte to come in contact with eyes, skin, fabrics or painted surfaces. The fluid contains acid which can cause injury and severe damage. Wear protective apparel. Do not inhale any battery gases. Keep 149  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE 150 children away from batteries. In case if battery acid comes in con- tact with the skin, wash it off im- mediately with water and seek medical attention. During charging and jump-start- ing, explosive gases can escape from the battery.

attention. During charging and jump-start- ing, explosive gases can escape from the battery. There is a risk of an explosion. Particularly avoid fire, open flames, creating sparks and smoking. Make sure that there is sufficient ventilation while charging and jump-starting. Do not lean over the battery. Make sure that the positive termi- nal of a connected battery does not come into contact with vehi- cle parts. Never place metal ob- jects or tools on a battery. It is important that you observe the described order of the battery terminals when connecting and disconnecting a battery. If you are in doubt, seek assistance from qualified specialist workshop. e Do not connect or disconnect the battery terminals while the en- gine is running. NOTE If your vehicle is equipped with a battery sensor, connect the jump start leads on output terminal of battery sensor. Do not connect the jump start leads on sensor surface or battery terminal. This will result of function loss of battery sensor.

leads on sensor surface or battery terminal. This will result of function loss of battery sensor. For petrol NA IAC/ISS variants. Following method to be adopted while performing Battery disconnection for any service on Vehicle, Jump Start and exter- nal Battery charging. e Always remove the Battery negative from Battery Sensor output side. Never remove the Battery Sensor di- rectly from Battery. This will result Battery learning loss and this act will switch off the ISS function. While performing jump start, ensure that the jump start Battery negative terminal is connected to Battery Sen- sor output as shown below. While performing external charging, ensure that charging circuit ground is connected to Battery Sensor output as shown below.  Do and Don’t Do e Use only authorized Battery sensor. e Use only authorized Battery e Always disconnect the Battery sen- sor output for any service on vehicle Don’t e Do not remove the Battery sensor if it is not necessary. e Do not mallet / hammer

vehicle Don’t e Do not remove the Battery sensor if it is not necessary. e Do not mallet / hammer the Battery sensor to fix on Battery Pole. e Do not place the Battery sensor on Positive Pole. e Do not remove the Battery Sensor connector. EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Towing When towing a break down vehicle, cer- tain precautions and procedures must be taken to prevent damage to the vehi- cle and/or components. Failure to use standard towing precautionary measures when lifting or towing a break down vehicle could result in an unsafe operating condition. To correctly tow and prevent accidental damage to your vehicle, take help of a TATA MOTORS authorized dealer or a commercial tow-truck service. NOTE Make sure that the parking brake is released; vehicle is in neutral and steering wheel is unlocked. The power steering functions only when engine is running. Hence, during towing the steering efforts will be more. e Do not get under your vehicle af- ter it has been lifted by a tow

steering efforts will be more. e Do not get under your vehicle af- ter it has been lifted by a tow truck. e For towing a vehicle, the best way is to use a wrecker. Alternatively use a rigid tow bar. e Switch 'ON' the hazard warning indicators of both the vehicles to warn other road users. e Limit the speed to 20-30 kmph. e In case of brake failure, use the parking brake to control the vehicle. 151  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Fasten the tow rope or tow bar at the towing eyes. Otherwise, the vehicle could be damaged. When towing, pull away slowly and smoothly. If the tractive power is too high, the vehicles could be damaged. Recommended towing In case of break down, we recommend that your vehicle be towed with the driv- ing wheels off the ground or place the ve- hicle on a flatbed truck as shown. 152 Do not tow your vehicle with the front wheels on the ground or four wheels on the ground (for- ward or backward), as this may cause serious damage to the transmission. When towing

ground (for- ward or backward), as this may cause serious damage to the transmission. When towing with the rear wheels on the ground or on towing dol- lies, place the ignition switch in the ‘ACC’ or ‘ON’ position, and se- cure the steering wheel in the straight-ahead position with a rope or similar device. Tow hook fitment e Open the tailgate and remove tow hook from the tool kit. e Open the tow hook cover provided on the front bumper by pressing it at the bottom part and simultaneously pull- ing it at the top (as shown in fig).  Screw in and tighten the tow hook in clockwise direction. After towing, remove the towing hook and press fit the cover properly. Place the towing hook in the vehicle tool kit. EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Fuses Your vehicle has fuse boxes at three lo- cations. The vehicles electrical circuits have uses to protect the wiring from short cir- cuits or sustained overload. 1. Battery Mounted Fuse Box. 2. Engine Compartment Fuse Box. 3. Cabin Compartment Fuse

overload. 1. Battery Mounted Fuse Box. 2. Engine Compartment Fuse Box. 3. Cabin Compartment Fuse Box. Checking and replacing fuses If any electrical unit in your vehicle is not functioning, check the fuses first. Please follow the steps below that will guide you to check and replace them. e Apply parking brake e Switch off all electrical accessories. e Turn the ignition key to the 'LOCK' po- sition. e Inthe fuse box, identify the defective fuse from its melted wire. be, BLOWN e Remove the defective fuse by “fuse puller”. The fuse puller and spare fuses are provided in the engine compartment fuse box. 153  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Battery mounted fuse box (Diesel) e Defective fuses must be replaced with fuses of same rating, which you can recognize by color and value. NOTE Always make sure that the spare fuses are added. e Make sure that all other fuses are pressed firmly in position. If a newly inserted fuse also blows, have the cause traced and rectified at nearest TATA

position. If a newly inserted fuse also blows, have the cause traced and rectified at nearest TATA MOTORS Authorized Dealer/Service Center immediately. e If you manipulate or bridge a faulty fuse or if you replace it with a fuse with higher amperage, the electric cables could be over- loaded. This could result in a fire. There is a risk of an accident and injury. e Always replace faulty fuses with the specified new fuses having the correct amperage. Funct No. PF1 STARTER MOTOR PF2 ALTERNATOR 1. PF2 ALTERNATOR 2. PF1 STARTER MOTOR If fuse box cover is removed for any reason, it should be refitted properly in its original position.  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Engine compartment fuse box (Diesel) Battery mounted fuse box (Petrol) PF1 STARTER MOTOR WARNING NOTE we : The fuse box layout is for reference 4} aan a se purpose only. Please refer the If Fuse box cover is removed for any reason, it should be refitted I | b STEVES CSE) ISSA sticker provided inside the fuse _ box cover.

reason, it should be refitted I | b STEVES CSE) ISSA sticker provided inside the fuse _ box cover. Fuse Rating Function | PF1 STARTER MOTOR 200A 155  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Fuses - Engine Compartment (Diesel) 156 Fuse | Function Fuse F18 | ABS PUMP 40A No. Rating rig | INTERIOR F/B GOA FO. | - - BATT COCKPIT F/B F20_ | IGNITION LOAD 60A F1 60A SUPPLY va ~ F2 | RADIATOR FAN-1 40A top> | HILHIGHRA TOA F3__| STARTER SOLE- 925A NOID BATT F23_ | H/L HIGH LH 10A F4 | - - ABS ECU IGNI- eT - F24 | Ton 5A re | *F25 | GLOW PLUG FB 5A a 7 F26 | - - EMS RELAY F8_| HEAD LAMP/TCU 60A ror | COS SEN. 415A *F9_ | GLOW PLUG 60A SORS Fi0 | EPAS 60A £28 EMS ECU SUP- 20A *F11_| RADIATOR FAN-2 40A F29 | - F142 | UNDER BONNET 60A F/R BOX £39 | FRONT WIPER 20A F13__| EMS BATT 10A MOTOR F14_| COMPRESSOR 10A *F31_| RRWIPER 108 F15 ABS ECU BATT 25A +632 STARTER MO- 5A F16 | HORN BATT 15A TOR FEEDBACK BRAKE LAMP F33 | RELAY COILS* 5A FI7 | Bary 10A i  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE REVERSE Fuses

BRAKE LAMP F33 | RELAY COILS* 5A FI7 | Bary 10A i  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE REVERSE Fuses - Engine Compartment F35 STS RAKE 10A (Petrol) No. Rating Fo | - - F36 H/L LOW LH 10A Ft COCKPIT F/B 60A F37 H/L LOW RH 10A SUPPLY F38 - - F2 RADIATOR FAN-1 40A * - if equipped Fa fe = *F5 FUEL PUMP BATT 15A Fe | - - F7 | - - F8 HEAD LAMP/TCU 60A Fo | - - F10 EPAS 60A *F11 RADIATOR FAN 40A F12 ee NET 60A F13 EMS BATT 10A F14 COMPRESSOR 10A F15 ABS ECU BATT 25A F16 HORN BATT 15A 157  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE F17 oee LAMP 10A F18 ABS PUMP 40A F19 eer F/B 60A F20 IGNITION LOAD 60A *F21 IGNITION COIL 15A F22 H/L HIGH RH 10A F23 H/L HIGH LH 10A F24 ated IGNI- 5A F25 - - F26 - - EMS RELAY F27 COILS & SEN- 15A SORS F28 EMS ECU SUPPLY 20A F29 EMS INJECTOR 10A F30 MOR PER 20A *F31 RR WIPER 10A *F33 RELAY COILS 5A 158 *F34 IBS BATT 5A REVERSE F35 LAMPS/BRAKE 10A SWITCH F36 H/L LOW LH 10A F37 H/L LOW RH 10A F38 - - Note: * - if equipped Cabin compartment fuse box Cover removal procedure

F37 H/L LOW RH 10A F38 - - Note: * - if equipped Cabin compartment fuse box Cover removal procedure Fuse box is located inside the cover be- low steering column. To access the fuse box, remove cover as per procedure given below. 1. Fuse box cover is mounted on dash board with the help of lugs at the top and bottom of the cover from inside. 2. To remove the cover, gently pull the cover from upper side.  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Re-fitment procedure Fuses - Cabin Compartment Fuse . Fuse No. Function Rating Align bottom lugs and push upper part with respective slots on dash board and F1 ease E RE- 10A press the cover firmly. TRANSIST/INEO. Fe TAINMENT 20A FS) F2)Fa F3 ACC BATT 15A Eee : *F4 auSE eS 5A FQ | F8|F7| | FG) FS|F4 |] teats] exten *F4 Bry BLOWER 5A F22 a * HEATED REAR oj F5 | SCREEN BCM 25A —— F6 HVAC/ FATC BATT 10A a) F21/F20F19 |F18)F17F16) | BCM2- BASE/MID Viera oa | 5a [sa | [isa [tsa [Ry F7 BCM 15A Co *Fa | BCM3-MID BCM 15A DIAGNOSTIC -| CENNEC TOR ws Fo |

oa | 5a [sa | [isa [tsa [Ry F7 BCM 15A Co *Fa | BCM3-MID BCM 15A DIAGNOSTIC -| CENNEC TOR ws Fo | BCMTBASEIMID 15A | F10 IGN FUSE-2 10A IM- F141 MOB/EPAS/PEPS- 5A . = IGN Cabin compartment fuse box F12 RESTRAINTS CON- 10 TROL MODULE 159  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE F13 POWER SOCKET1 15A * MIRROR ADJUST F14 MOTOR 5A *F15 POWER SKT 15A PEPS/ESCL ECU- 10A *F16 BATT RELAY COILS 5A CLUSTER / Flr OBD/IMMO 15A F18 CDL 15A *F19 KEY IN 5A * AC BLOWER POSI- F20 TION 5A F21 BLOWER MOTOR 30A *F22 RPAS 5A Note: * - if equipped 160  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Bulb Specification a 4 HIGH BEAM 12V, 55W 2 2 LOW BEAM 12V, 55W H7 2 3 TURN SIGNAL FRONT 12V, 21W PY21W 2 4 POSITION BULB 12V, 5W W5W 2 5 SIDE REPEATER LAMP 12V, 5W W5W 2 6 TURN SIGNAL (BSO) 12V, 16W WY16W 2 7 STOP SIGNAL (BSO) 12V, 21W P21 2 8 POSITION SIGNAL (BSO) 12V, 5W W5W 2 9 POSITION SIGNAL (ON TAIL GATE) 12V, 5W W5W 2 10 REVERSE SIGNAL LH (ON TAIL GATE) 12V, 21W P21W 1 11 HIGH MOUNTED STOP LAMP (CHMSL) 12V, 2W LED 1 12

REVERSE SIGNAL LH (ON TAIL GATE) 12V, 21W P21W 1 11 HIGH MOUNTED STOP LAMP (CHMSL) 12V, 2W LED 1 12 FRONT FOG LAMP 12V, 35W H8 1 13 REAR FOG LAMP LH SIDE 12V, 21W P21 1 14 REGISTRATION PLATE LAMP LED LED 2 15 ROOF LAMP (BULB) 12V, 10W W5W +W5W 2 16 ROOF LAMP LED LED 1 17 LOAD AREA & GLOOVE BOX LAMP. 12V, 5W W5W 2 18 DRL LED LED 2 19 FOOTWELL ILLUMINATION LED LED 2 20 CUBBY ILLUMINATION LED LED 1 21 CENTER FASCIA ILLUMINATION LED LED 1 161  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Head Lamp bulb Replacements e Do not run the engine when you change bulbs. e If the engine has been running just prior to replacing bulbs in the headlight housing, please keep in mind that components in the en- gine compartment will be hot. NOTE Your vehicle’s headlamps have re- placeable halogen bulbs. 162 Replacing the low beam bulb 1. Lift the bonnet to access the bulbs. 2. Remove the Bulb Access cover by ro- tating as per the direction arrow shown on the cover. 3. Press the pin and pull the connector from the

as per the direction arrow shown on the cover. 3. Press the pin and pull the connector from the bulb. 4. To free the headlamp bulb from the socket, press and swing the retaining spring and pull it straight back. 5. Pull out the bulb from the socket. Insert the new bulb (without touching the glass) into the socket. Move the retaining spring up and push it slightly until it locks properly. Refit the connector in to the Bulb & rotate the Bulb Access Cover as per the direction arrow shown on the cover. It is dangerous if a halogen bulb breaks. These bulbs contain pressurized gas and if broken, will explode causing serious in- jury by the flying glass. Halogen bulbs can break if the glass portion is touched with bare hands, body oil could cause the bulb to heat unevenly and ex- plode when lit. Never touch the glass portion of the bulb with your bare hands and always wear eye protection when handling or working around halogen bulbs. Always keep halo- gen bulbs out of the reach of chil-

handling or working around halogen bulbs. Always keep halo- gen bulbs out of the reach of chil- dren.  24 X 7 Road Assistance Dear Customer, It is our responsibility and our endeavor to ensure that you have our complete service backup if ever, wherever and whenever you need the same. When you have a road network that spans wide area, the probability of a breakdown happening within hailing distance of a TATA MOTORS Authorized Workshop is very low. It is precisely for this reason, we have tied up with TVS AA, who will provide breakdown assistance including towing to the nearest TATA MOTORS Authorized Workshop through their Authorized Ser- vice Providers (ASP). The 24X7 On Road Assistance Program shall be automatically available to your vehicle for the duration of Warranty pe- riod. The program shall also be availa- ble, if you avail the same post warranty. EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Response Time ** for the On Road Assistance Program Within City Lim- its On State or Na- tional

Response Time ** for the On Road Assistance Program Within City Lim- its On State or Na- tional Highways Ghat Roads and other places 60 minutes 90 minutes 120 minutes +/- ** (The response time will depend on he location, terrain, traffic density and he time of the day.) Standard procedure when calling for On Road Assistance in case of a breakdown: e Dial the toll free help line number - 1800 209 7979 e Identify your vehicle with the Vehicle chassis number that is available in the Owner’s Manual. e Explain your exact location with land- marks and tell us about the problem you face with the vehicle. e Park your vehicle on the edge of the road, open the bonnet and put on the hazard warning signal. e Place the advance warning triangle supplied with the vehicle approx. 3m from the vehicle in the direction of oncoming traffic. TATA MOTORS | SERVICE RESPONSIVE 24x7 ON-ROAD ASSISTANCE 1800 209 7979 Coverage under 24 X 7 on Road Assistance Program |. The 24x7 On Road Assistance Pro- gram

209 7979 Coverage under 24 X 7 on Road Assistance Program |. The 24x7 On Road Assistance Pro- gram Service covers the following ser- vices on your vehicle during warranty period. 163  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE e Wheel change through spare wheel. e Arrangement of fuel. (Fuel cost will be chargeable at actual cost). e Re-opening the vehicle in cases of key lock out. e Rectification of electrical problems related to battery, fuses etc. e Onspot repairs for complaints repair- able at site. * e Vehicle to vehicle towing or winching & towing for non-accident cases up to the nearest TATA MOTORS Author- ized Dealer/Service Center. Towing charges at actual cost beyond the same to be paid to the ASP in cash. (Any ferry or toll charges levied in re- lation to the vehicle being towed to be paid by the customers in actuals in cash). For accident cases, towing charges to be borne by the customer. ll. The 24x7 On Road Assistance Pro- gram coverage on availing the 24X7 pol- icy, post

customer. ll. The 24x7 On Road Assistance Pro- gram coverage on availing the 24X7 pol- icy, post warranty is upto maximum of 6 instance of assistance in one year for 164 both the plans- Basic and Premium. In the premium plan, this includes 2 in- stances of towing up to the nearest TATA MOTORS Authorized Dealer/Service Center. Exclusions 24 X 7 On Road Assistance Program does not apply to e Cost of parts consumables and labor for such repairs not covered under warranty*. These charges are to be settled with ASP in cash. e Toll or ferry charges paid by ASP in reaching to the breakdown site to be settled with ASP in actuals in cash. e Cases involving accident, fire, theft, vandalism, riots, lightening, earth- quake, windstorm, hail, tsunami, un- usual weather conditions, other acts of God, flood, etc. e Vehicles that are unattended, un-reg- istered, impounded or abandoned. e Breakdown/defects caused by mis- use, abuse, negligence, alterations or modifications made to the vehicle. e Lack

caused by mis- use, abuse, negligence, alterations or modifications made to the vehicle. e Lack of maintenance as per the maintenance schedule as detailed in the owner’s manual. e Cases involving racing, rallies, vehi- cle testing or practice for such events. Disclaimer e The Service is not available in Lak- shadweep. e **The reach time is indicative & the actual reach time will be conveyed by the call center at the time of break- down call. e The reach time can vary depending on the traffic density & time of the day. e The reach time indicated does not account for delays due to but not lim- ited to acts of God, laws, rules & reg- ulations for time being in force, or- ders of statutory or Govt. authorities, industrial disputes, inclement weather, heavy down pour, floods, storms, natural calamities, road blocks due to accidents, general  strife and law & order conditions viz. fire, arson, riots, strikes, terrorist at- tacks, war etc. “ On spot repairs at breakdown site shall depend on

riots, strikes, terrorist at- tacks, war etc. “ On spot repairs at breakdown site shall depend on nature of complaints & will be as per the discretion of the ASP. * The decision for free of charge repairs will be as per the warranty policy & pro- cedures of TATA MOTORS LTD. and as per the interpretation of the same by ASP. You will be duly informed by the ASP & call center for the change applicable if any. e All charges wherever applicable need to be settled directly with the ASP. Exclusion of Liabilities e It is understood that TATA MOTORS shall be under no liability whatsoever in respect of any loss or damage aris- ing directly or indirectly out of any de- lay in or non-delivery of, defect/defi- ciency in service/parts provided by ASP. EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE In case vehicle cannot be repaired on-site, customers are advised to use the towing facility for taking their vehicle to the nearest TATA MOTORS authorized workshop only. In no con- dition shall the vehicle be towed

to the nearest TATA MOTORS authorized workshop only. In no con- dition shall the vehicle be towed to any unauthorized workshop. TATA MOTORS will not be responsible for any repairs carried out in such unau- thorized workshop. Customer are advised to take ac- knowledgment from the ASP for the list of accessories/extra fittings and other belongings in the vehicle as well as the current condition related to dents/scratches breakages of parts/fitments of the vehicle at the time of ASP taking possession of the vehicle & to verify these items when delivery is taken back by them, Claim for loss of or damage to items, if any should be taken up with ASP directly. TATA MOTORS shall not be responsi- ble for any such claims, dam- ages/loss or any deficiency of ser- vice of the ASP. Vehicles will be handled, repaired & towed as per the customer’s risk & TATA MOTORS shall not be liable for any damages / claims as a result of the same. Services entitled to the customers can be refused or cancelled on

/ claims as a result of the same. Services entitled to the customers can be refused or cancelled on ac- count of abusive behavior, fraudu- lent representation, malicious intent and refusal to pay the charges for any charges related services and spare parts during service or on pre- vious occasions on part of the cus- tomer. On site repairs may be temporary in nature. The completion of repairs does not certify the road worthiness of the vehicle. The customer is ad- vised to ensure temporary repairs carried out onsite is followed by per- manent repairs at a TATA MOTORS Authorised Dealer/Service Center at the earliest. Terms and conditions and service coverage, exclusions etc. are subject to change without notice. 165  166  Maintenance and Service Periodic maintenance is essential for en- suring long trouble free performance. Have your vehicle serviced regularly from TATA MOTORS Authorized Dealer/Service Center. There is a large network of TATA MO- TORS Authorized Service Centre to help

Dealer/Service Center. There is a large network of TATA MO- TORS Authorized Service Centre to help you with their professional servicing ex- pertise. Scheduled maintenance infor- mation is provided which makes tracking routine service easy. The following checks can be carried out between the recommended scheduled maintenance services. Take help of our authorized service center for assistance. e Engine oil level e Engine coolant level e Brake fluid level e Washer fluid level checking & top- ping up e Battery electrolyte level e Tyre inflation pressure spare wheel NOTE Refer “Opening and Closing” sec- tion for engine bonnet opening. including MAINTENANCE e Be careful not to touch a hot en- gine, exhaust manifold and pipes, muffler, radiator and water hoses. e Do not work on a vehicle with the engine running in an enclosed space, unless you are sure of enough ventilation. e Keep all open flames and other burning material (such as ciga- rettes) away from the battery and all fuel related

flames and other burning material (such as ciga- rettes) away from the battery and all fuel related parts. If you need to do any work inside the engine compartment, e Switch off the ignition e Never reach into the area where there is a risk of danger from moving components, such as the fan rotation area. e Keep clothing away from moving parts. 167  MAINTENANCE Engine Compartment - Diesel 1. Brake fluid reservoir 2. Engine oil filling cap 3. Windshield washer container 4. Dipstick - Engine oil 5. Fuse Box 6. Battery 7. Radiator Cap 168  MAINTENANCE 1. Brake fluid reservoir 2.Dipstick - Engine oil 3.Engine oil filling cap 4. Windshield washer container 5.Radiator Cap 6.Fuse Box 7. Battery 169  MAINTENANCE Engine Oil Level Dipstick location Engine oil (Petrol 170 Warm up the engine to normal operating temperature. Turn it ‘OFF’ and wait for 5 minutes for the oil to return to the oil pan. Be sure the vehicle is on a level surface. Take out the dipstick, wipe it clean, and reinsert it

Be sure the vehicle is on a level surface. Take out the dipstick, wipe it clean, and reinsert it fully. Pull it out again and ex- amine the oil level. It should be between ‘MIN’ and ‘MAX’ level. If not, top up with recommended engine oil. NOTE The oil consumption depends upon the driving style and the con- ditions under which the vehicle is used. ‘ A-MIN B-MAX Dipstick (Petrol)  MAINTENANCE j Dipstick (Diesel) Aa NOTE Brake fluid reservoir (Diesel) Do not remove the filler cap when the engine is running. Do not add oil above than the MAX. mark. Oil level above the MAX. mark may cause engine damage. Brake fluid reservoir For location of Engine oil filling cap and dip stick, please refer image of . the respective Engine Compartment. Brake fluid level 171  MAINTENANCE The level of the brake fluid should be be- tween the ‘MIN’ and ‘MAX’ marks pro- vided on the side of the brake fluid con- tainer. If the level falls below the ‘MIN’ mark, add recommended brake fluid. NOTE Do not allow brake

If the level falls below the ‘MIN’ mark, add recommended brake fluid. NOTE Do not allow brake fluid to make contact with the skin or eyes. Do not allow brake fluid to splash or spill on the paint surface as it will damage the paint. In case of spillage, wipe it off immediately. For location of Brake Fluid Container and filling cap, please refer respective Engine Compartment. 172 Engine Coolant Level Examine whether the coolant level is be- tween the ‘MIN’ and ‘MAX’ marks pro- vided on the coolant reservoir. When the coolant level is low, top up with recommended coolant through filler of No loss tank until the level approaches the max level line. Refer ‘Technical infor- mation’ section. NOTE In case of emergency, a large amount of water without engine coolant may be added in order to reach a vehicle service location. Whenever coolant has been added, the coolant level in the coolant reservoir should be checked the next few times you drive the vehicle to confirm correct level. For

reservoir should be checked the next few times you drive the vehicle to confirm correct level. For location of Engine coolant con- tainer and filler cap, please refer im- age of Engine Compartment. NOTE Topping up of the coolant should be done in the auxiliary tank only. Make sure that only TATA MOTORS rec- ommended coolant is used. Mixing of different coolants may harm your en- gine’s cooling system and its compo- nents. Do not add extra inhibitors or ad- ditives to the coolant. These can be  harmful and compromise the corrosion protection of the engine coolant. WARNING The engine cooling system is pres- surized, particularly when the en- gine is warm. When opening the cap, you could be scalded by hot coolant spraying out. There is a risk of injury. Let the engine cool down before opening the cap. Wear eye and hand protection when opening the cap. Open the cap slowly half a turn to allow pressure to escape. Windshield Washer Fluid Level Examine if there is washer fluid in the tank.

pressure to escape. Windshield Washer Fluid Level Examine if there is washer fluid in the tank. Fill it if necessary. Use a good qual- ity windshield washer fluid, diluted with water as necessary. NOTE Do not use detergent or any other additive in the windshield washer reservoir. This can severely impair visibility when sprayed on the windshield, and can also damage your vehicle’s paint. MAINTENANCE Do not operate washer motor with no fluid in washer tank, washer mo- tor will be damaged For location of Windshield Washer Container and filling cap, please refer image of the respective Engine Com- partment. 173  MAINTENANCE Battery sensor function temporarily. Sensor unctionality will be restored when For location of battery, please refer image of the respective Engine Com- Examine the battery for electrolyte level against the marking on the bat- tery outer case. Examine the battery terminals for corrosion (a white or yellowish pow- der). To remove it, wash the termi- nals with a

terminals for corrosion (a white or yellowish pow- der). To remove it, wash the termi- nals with a solution of baking soda. It will bubble up and turn brown. When this stops, wash it off with plain water. Dry off the battery with a cloth or paper towel. Apply petroleum jelly to the terminals to prevent further corrosion. Use a proper wrench to loosen and remove cables from the terminals. Always disconnect the negative (-ve) cable first and reconnect it last. If your vehicle is equipped with Bat- tery Sensor, then disconnect only the Sensor Output Cable. Do not remove the Sensor, Sensor connector com- pletely as this will result in the loss of 174 he Vehicle is parked for 3 hours without any operation. Clean the battery terminals with a erminal cleaning tool or wire brush. Reconnect and tighten the cables, coat the terminals with petroleum jelly. Make sure that the battery is se- curely mounted. If you need to connect the battery to a charger, disconnect both cables to prevent damage

mounted. If you need to connect the battery to a charger, disconnect both cables to prevent damage to the vehicle’s electrical system. if your vehicle is equipped with Bat- ery Sensor, connect the jump start leads on output terminal of Battery Sensor. Do not connect the jump start leads on Sensor surface or Bat- ery terminal. This will result of func- ion loss of Battery sensor. Refer the Battery Sensor image for do's and don'ts. partment. Use only authorized Battery recom- mended by TATA Motors. Use of any other unauthorized Battery will result in malfunction of the ISS op- eration.  NOTE e During normal operation, the bat- tery generates gas which is explo- sive in nature. A spark or open flame can cause the battery to explode causing very serious inju- ries. e Keep all sparks, open flames and smoking materials away from the battery. e The battery contains sulphuric acid (electrolyte) which is poison- ous and highly corrosive in na- ture. Getting electrolyte in your eyes or on the

which is poison- ous and highly corrosive in na- ture. Getting electrolyte in your eyes or on the skin can cause se- vere burns. Wear protective clothing and a face shield or have a skilled technician to do the bat- tery maintenance. Spark Plug (Petrol) Fi = _— MAINTENANCE 1 2 3 UNDER INFLATION CORRECT OVER INFLATION For NG NA Engine Number Spark Plug Gap 0.8 to 0.9mm Federal Mogul (Champion) RER8MC Tightening Torque - 25 Nm NOTE Use spark plug of recommended make & type for replacement. Under inflation Excessive side tread wear Correct tyre 2 pressure Uniform wear Excessive 3 Over inflation center tread wear 175  MAINTENANCE Inflation Do a check of the tyre pressure and the tyres condition periodically. Examine the pressure in the tyres when they are cold. Keep the correct pressure in the tyres for the best combination of riding comfort, handling, tyre life and optimum perfor- mance. Over inflation of tyres makes the vehicle ride bumpy and harsh. Tyres are more prone to uneven wear

Over inflation of tyres makes the vehicle ride bumpy and harsh. Tyres are more prone to uneven wear and damage from road hazards. Under inflated tyres reduce comfort, af- fects handling and increases the operat- ing temperature, which can result in fail- ure. They also cause uneven wear and bring down the performance of the car. NOTE Every time you check inflation pressure, you should also examine tyres for uneven wear, damage and trapping of foreign objects in the treads and wear. 176 Recommended tyre pressures Tyre pressure sticker location Tyre size Bronk Keay (psi/bar) (psi/bar) 165/80 R14 35/2.4 35/2.4 185/60 R16 35/2.4 35/2.4 195/55 R16 35/2.4 35/2.4 185/65 R15 35/2.4 35/2.4 For ride comfort, refer below pres- sure table Front and Rear Tyre size Unladen 165/80 R14 35 35 185/60 R16 35 32 195/55 R16 35 32 185/65 R15 35 35 NOTE This is for reference. Kindly refer Tyre pressure as indicated on tyre pressure sticker provided on vehi- cle.  Tyre rotation To increase tyre life rotate

on tyre pressure sticker provided on vehi- cle.  Tyre rotation To increase tyre life rotate the tyre at specified intervals or earlier depending on the operation of vehicle. The illustra- tions shows how to rotate tyres. For 165/80 R14 tyres For tyre with temporary spare wheel (if available) NOTE SPARE WHEEL WITH STEEL WHEEL RIM Do not use spare wheel for tyre rotation, in case of temporary spare wheel used. Two or more temporary tyres should not be used on one vehi- cle. Tyre pressure of temporary wheel is to be checked at least once in in a month. MAINTENANCE Spare wheel specification 165/80 R14 for all variants 177  MAINTENANCE Wheel covers (if available) Insert a piece of cloth between the spokes of the wheel cover and pull it out- wards. Take out detached wheel cover from the wheel rim. When installing the cover, make sure that it is positioned so that it does not cover the air filling valve. Apply equal pressure at the circumference of the wheel cover to fix it in the wheel rim.

valve. Apply equal pressure at the circumference of the wheel cover to fix it in the wheel rim. NOTE Do not use any sharp tools (such as screw driver etc.) to remove the wheel cover. 178 Wheel Alignment Incorrect wheel alignment causes exces- sive and uneven tyre wear. Check wheel alignment at specified intervals. Wheel Balancing Wheels of your vehicle are balanced for better ride comfort and longer tyre life. Balancing needs to be done whenever tyre is removed from rim. If the vehicle vibrates abnormally on a smooth road, have the wheel balanced done immediately. Special care for tubeless tyres: e When you remove the tyre and install it back on the rim, take precautions not to damage tyre bead. Use tyre re- moval and assembly machines. Damage or cut on tyre bead may cause gradual loss of air and defla- tion of tyre. e Do not scratch the inner surface of tubeless tyre with metallic or sharp object. Tubeless tyres are coated with impermeable layer of rubber rom the inner surface which

object. Tubeless tyres are coated with impermeable layer of rubber rom the inner surface which holds the air in the tyre. Removal of this layer due to scratching may cause gradual loss of air and deflation. e If wheel rim gets damaged in service, get the wheel rim repaired/ replaced immediately. Running the vehicle with damaged rim may cause defla- tion of tyre and subsequent dislodg- ing of tyre from rim.  Keep the recommended inflation pressure. Over-inflation, in particu- lar, may cause puncture or bursting of tyre. Life and wear pattern of tyres de- pends on various parameters like tyre pressure, wheel alignment, wheel balancing, tyre rotation, etc. It also largely depends on vehicle speed, load carried, usage, driving habits, road conditions, tyre qual- ity, etc. In case fault is suspected to be due to poor quality of tyres, the same may be taken up with concerned tyre manufacturer. Smart Key Battery Replacement (For PEPS variant) Procedure: 1. Open rear side of key (battery

Smart Key Battery Replacement (For PEPS variant) Procedure: 1. Open rear side of key (battery cover). 2. 3. 4. Replace with new battery in the smart key battery slot. Ensure that the “+” symbol on the battery is facing upwards. The cor- rect polarity is shown on the battery cover. Close the battery cover. MAINTENANCE 5. Make sure that the key cover is intact properly. NOTE e Use CR 2032 battery only. e An inappropriately disposed battery can be harmful to the environment and human health. Dispose the battery ac- cording to your local law(s) and regulation. Wearable key battery replacement procedure Battery status of the wearable key fob: e lf customer presses the driver door handle switch or tailgate switch for 2- 3 times with valid wearable and if the passive entry is not working, the wearable key fob's battery is low. e As standby he can use Smart Key (UID) or emergency key for entry e Customer to contact nearby dealer or service station for battery replace- ment 179  MAINTENANCE

e Customer to contact nearby dealer or service station for battery replace- ment 179  MAINTENANCE Battery Specifications e Lithium Battery CR1632 e Voltage 3V e Make: Panasonic, Renata NOTE Battery life is 10 months or 25,000 PKE cycles (whichever comes earlier. Battery replacement e Remove the screws from backside of wearable key fob. e Remove back-cover e Remove battery from wearable key e Place new battery e Put the back cover and screw it with all the four screws. 4) 180 On Board Diagnostic (OBD Il) System On board Diagnostics or OBD, is an auto- motive term referring to a vehicle’s self- diagnostic and reporting capability. The OBD system allows continuous diagno- sis of the components of the vehicle cor- related with emissions. This system warns the driver, by turning “ON” the Malfunction Indication lamp (MIL) on the instrument cluster, when a fault causes emission levels to increase. The OBD system also has a diagnostic connector that can be interfaced with appropriate

to increase. The OBD system also has a diagnostic connector that can be interfaced with appropriate diagnostic tools, which makes it possible to read the fault codes stored in the Electronic Control Unit, to- gether with a series of specific parame- ters for Engine operation and Diagnosis. This check can also be carried out by the traffic police. On board diagnostic located in Engine compartment fuse box. (Refer below im- age) Location of On board diagnostic (OBD I!)  Service Instructions The TATA ALTROZ has been manufactured to give you eco- nomical and trouble free performance. To achieve this, please follow the instructions as stated. Your vehicle is entitled to three free services (labour only). The free service coupons are attached to the sales invoice. Please present these coupons to the servicing dealer while availing free services. 1st free service - At 1,000-2,000km. OR 2 months, whichever is earlier. 2nd free service - At 7,000-8,000km. OR 6 months, whichever is earlier. 3rd

whichever is earlier. 2nd free service - At 7,000-8,000km. OR 6 months, whichever is earlier. 3rd free service - At 14,500-15,500km. OR 12 months, which- ever is earlier. All services other than free services are chargeable. MAINTENANCE Servicing of the vehicle can be done at any TATA MOTORS Authorised Dealer Workshop or TATA MOTORS Authorised Service Centre (TASC). Warranty claims can be settled by any TATA MOTORS Author- ised Dealer Workshop or TATA MOTORS Authorised Service Centre (TASC). 181  MAINTENANCE Service Schedule Operation 7500 30000 37500 45000 60000 67500 ‘5000 82500 General 120000 127500 150000 Wash the vehicle & Clean Condenser Fins vice Check & Top up Flu- ids (If required): Ever 2 | Transaxle ait Coo Ter” | Stet etelefe |. |e teletefe)efe]e]e]. ant, Brake Fluid, Bat- | Sr tery Electrolyte, Wind Screen washer fluid Check Fuel Lines for |EV@"Y 3 ser- |o}leleo]leoefeoeloj el efleleloe to fo fo tolole Leakages Sen Check and Capture all | Every 4 DTC's Clear all faults |

el efleleloe to fo fo tolole Leakages Sen Check and Capture all | Every 4 DTC's Clear all faults | Ser- . . . . . . . ° ° ° . ° . ° ° ° . and Erase the Codes. |vice Check condition of Rubber bushes/ parts in lower link, front & rear coil spring seats, front. & rear bump stoppers, anti-roll bar, rear twist beam, front & rear dampers, rub- |7.5K/ elelele we tlelele le le leletele ber boot/dust | 6M cover/bellow in rack & pinion, steering and suspension ball joints, steering column. Re- place if necessary (First at 15K/12M then at every service). #-Kms or months whichever occurs earlier 182  Operation MAINTENANCE Check & Replace if found damaged -- Exhaust hanger , Suspension bushes 30K/24M ° =) s Ss a . Check All door latch & striker op- erations , Adjust & Apply grease If re- quired 15K/12M Check for all bolts & nuts 7.5K / 6M ENGINE (Diesel) Clean air filter ele- ment (more fre- quently for vehicle operating in severe condition) 7.5K / 6M Replace air filter element (@ 15K for Vehicle

for vehicle operating in severe condition) 7.5K / 6M Replace air filter element (@ 15K for Vehicle operat- ing in severe con- dition) 30K/24M Change engine oil and Oil filter - 15K / 12M 4 Drain water from Fuel Filter Bowl 15K / 12M #-Kms or months whichever occurs earlier 183  MAINTENANCE Operation Replace Fuel filter assembly. Re- place based on Lamp status only. Check AC & Alter- nator belt condi- 6 | tion visually, re- 15K / 12M . . . . ° . . ° ° . place if found dam- age Check timing belt visual condition, replace if found damage. #105K/24M . 8 Change coolant # 60K/36M . ° Replace timing drive kit (Timing 2 | belt, Auto ten- # 150K/60M . sioner and Idler) ENGINE (Gasoline) Clean air filter ele- ment (more fre- 1 | quently for vehicle | 15K/12M . . . . ° . . ° ° . operating in severe condition) Change engine oil and Oil filter 2 15K / 12M ° . . . ° . . ° ° . #-Kms or months whichever occurs earlier 184  Operation Gasoline - Replace GasolineFuel Filter 75K/60M MAINTENANCE Change

occurs earlier 184  Operation Gasoline - Replace GasolineFuel Filter 75K/60M MAINTENANCE Change Spark plugs - Natural As- pirated Engine 45K/36M. Check accessory belt condition visu- ally, replace if found damage 15K/12M Replace air filter el- ement (more fre- quently for vehicle operating in severe condition) 45K/36M. Change coolant # 60K/36M BRAKES Check front brake pads & rear brake linings. Replace if necessar\ 15K/12M Replace brakefluid, Check brake sys- temcomponents for Leakages # 45K/24M 3 Inspect and if nec- essary adjust hand- brake setting 15K/12M #- Kms or months whichever occurs earlier 185  MAINTENANCE @raeeeM |» [el a| WHEELS & TYRES Check & adjust wheel alignment (For severe usage, above checks to be # done at every 5,000 | 15K/18M km or after every severe usage event) Check for Tyre #75 2 pressure, condition KMoM ° ° . . . . . . . . . . . . ° ° ° ° . ° & rotate TRANSAXLE (Petrol & I) Replace transaxle oil ELECTRICAL Check specific 1 | gravity of battery 7.5K/6M eo fe

(Petrol & I) Replace transaxle oil ELECTRICAL Check specific 1 | gravity of battery 7.5K/6M eo fe let o lo fe flo foe flo} oto fof oe fo fo lo fol ofeleo electrolyte Check headlamp fo- cusing 75K/60M . ° 15K/12M . . . . . ° . . . ° AC. SYSTEM Clean filter and check of Air-condi- 1 | tioning / HVAC Sys- tem for satisfactory performance #-Kms or months whichever occurs earlier Every Service 186  Vehicle Parking for Long Duration (Non - Use Maintenance) If you want to park your vehicle at one place for long duration, following care is to be taken: 1. Park the vehicle in covered, dry and if possible well-ventilated premises. Engage a gear. Remove the battery terminal cables (first remove the cable from the neg- ative terminal). Ensure that battery is fully charged. Use wheel chocks to prevent move- ment of the car. Clean and protect the painted parts using protective wax. Clean and protect the shiny metal parts using commercially available special compounds. Sprinkle talcum powder on the

the shiny metal parts using commercially available special compounds. Sprinkle talcum powder on the rub- ber windscreen wiper and lift them off the glass. 10. 11. Slightly open the windows. Cover the vehicle with a cloth or per- forated plastic sheet. Do not use sheets of imperforated plastic as they do not allow moisture on the ve- hicle body to evaporate. Inflate the tyres to 0.5 bar above the normal specified pressure and check it at regular intervals. Check the battery charge every six weeks. Do not drain the engine cooling sys- tem. MAINTENANCE 187  188  TECHNICAL INFORMATION Fuel Specification Fuel (Petrol) Fuel (Diesel) Unleaded gasoline conforming to IS 2796:2017 is recom- mended to be used as fuel. It is always recommended to use Normal grade BS VI compliant diesel conforming to 1S1460 correct fuel to get optimum emission performance. :2017 or equivalent is recommended to be used as fuel. Do not use premium diesel available in the market for like NOTE extra premium / Turbojet

as fuel. Do not use premium diesel available in the market for like NOTE extra premium / Turbojet etc. Always use petrol of a correct specification in a vehicle tetas fitted with catalytic converter. Even single fill of leaded Recommended fuel specifications petrol will seriously damage the catalytic converter. Parameter Unit BS VI Cetane Number (min) CN 51 Sulphur content mg/kg 10 Lubricity (HFRR) micron 460 NOTE Where oxidation catalytic converter is fitted, it is manda- tory to use Diesel fuel with sulphur contents as given above. Use of any other diesel fuel can increase the pol- lutants. 189  TECHNICAL INFORMATION Lubricant Specification Use following genuine fluids, coolants and lubricants recommended for optimum performance of your vehicle. Company Castrol GTX T 0W20 Engine oil 0W20, SS6588 Exxon Mobil Mobil Super 3000 TM OW-20 Petrol 3.5 L , Diesel 5 L Petronas PETRONAS Syntium 7000 TM 0W20 Coolant (Premixed) Radiator coolant Ansysco Puroblue (Antifreeze agent + TYPE2 Sunstar

7000 TM 0W20 Coolant (Premixed) Radiator coolant Ansysco Puroblue (Antifreeze agent + TYPE2 Sunstar CCl Gloden Cruiser LLC2200NP Petrol 4 L Softwater 40:60 ra- $S7700 179B Diesel 5 L tio) TS25205P1 IOCL TATA MOTORS GENUINE COOLANT KOOL PLUS CASTROL Next Generation Transmission oil EP80W ; EPBOWLL (Next PETRONAS TATA MOTORS Genuine -Gear oil Petrol -1.8L Transaxle oil Gen) Petronas New Gen 80 EP LL Diesel 2.1L TATA SS6582 oe IOCL |OCL TATA MOTORS Genuine gear oil 80 WLL PETRONAS Tutela Brake fluid DOT 4 Rrave fluid/Clutch SAE J1703, DOT4 Sunstar CCl Golden Cruiser Tata Genuine Brake Fluid (DOT4) As required ui , CASTROL Gotional - CASTROL- Universal Brake Fluid DOT Refrigerant R-134A - 450 + 20gm Compressor oil SP-10 Sanden SP10 120+ 15cc 190  Technical Specifications TECHNICAL INFORMATION Parameter Diesel Petrol Engine Model/type 1.5 Common Rail Turbo Intercooled 1.2 Revotron Petrol NA Engine Capacity 1497cc 1199 cc Max. Engine output 66 kW @ 4000 rpm 63 kW @ 6000 rpm Max. Torque 200

Engine Capacity 1497cc 1199 cc Max. Engine output 66 kW @ 4000 rpm 63 kW @ 6000 rpm Max. Torque 200 Nm @ 1250 to 3000 rpm 113 Nm @ 3300 rpm Transaxle Model TA 5260 TA 65* Type Synchromesh with Overdrive No. of gears 5-Forward, 1-Reverse Steering Type Electric Power Assisted Steering System Brakes Brakes Front (Disc); Rear (Drum) Parking brake Hand Operated (Pull to Operate) on LHS of Driver Suspension Type Rome Independent, lower wishbone, Mcpherson strut with coil spring ‘ear: Semi-independent twist beam with coil spring and shock absorber Shock absorber Hydraulic; gas filled 191  TECHNICAL INFORMATION Diesel | Petrol Parameter Wheels & tyre Tyres Option | :165/80 R14 (Radial-Tubeless); Option II :185/60 R16 (Radial-Tubeless); y Option III : 195/55 R16 (Radial-Tubeless); Option IV : 185/65 R15 (Radial-Tubeless) Option | : 4.5Jx14” Steel wheel Wheel rims Option II : 6.0Jx16” Steel wheel Option III : 6.5JX 16” Alloy wheel Option IV : 5.5JX 15” Steel wheel Fuel tank Capacity 37 litres

Option III : 6.5JX 16” Alloy wheel Option IV : 5.5JX 15” Steel wheel Fuel tank Capacity 37 litres Cab / body Type Steel Monocoque body Electrical system System voltage 12 Volts (-ve earth) Alternator capacity 13.5V,110A Battery Option |: 12V, 38 Ah 12V, 47.5 Ah Option II : 12V, 60 Ah 192  TECHNICAL INFORMATION Parameter Diesel | Petrol Main chassis dimension (in mm) Wheel base 2501 Track front 1510 Track rear 1510 Overall length 3990 Overall height 1523 Max. Width without ORVM 1755 Max. Width with ORVM 1983 Ground clearance 135 mm 136 mm Performance Max. Speed 166 kmph 154 kmph Max. Recommended gradability 17.5 14.2 Minimum Turning Circle Dia. in meter 10 as per 1S:12222 Minimum Turning Clearance circle dia. 106 in meters . 193  TECHNICAL INFORMATION Parameter Diesel Petrol Weight (in kg) 1533 (XE) 1405 (XE) . . 1545(XM) 1427 (XM) Gross vehicle weight (Laden) 1565 (XT) 4453 (XT) 1575 (XZ) 1461 (XZ) 1108 (XE) 980 (XE) . 1120 (XM 1002 (XM Kerb weight (unladen) 1140 oa 1028 ix) 1150 (XZ)

1461 (XZ) 1108 (XE) 980 (XE) . 1120 (XM 1002 (XM Kerb weight (unladen) 1140 oa 1028 ix) 1150 (XZ) 1036 (XZ) Vehicle Dimensions NOTE: Dimensions are in mm and under Unladen condition 194  TECHNICAL INFORMATION Aggregate Identification Numbers Chassis No. punching near driver seat VIN plate location near front passenger seat Transaxle No. Punching (TA 65*) : Engine No. plate Petrol (NA)  196  Car Care Your vehicle is subjected to many exter- nal influences such as climate, road con- ditions, industrial pollution and proximity to the sea. These conditions demand regular care of the vehicle body. Dirt, in- sects, bird droppings, oil, grease, fuel and stone chippings should be removed as soon as possible. Washing Following these tips while washing your vehicle. 1. Always wash your vehicle in shade and the surface is at room tempera- ture. 2. Wash with mild vehicle wash soap like ‘Car Shampoo’ and use a soft bristle brush, sponge or soft cloth and rinse it frequently while washing to avoid

and use a soft bristle brush, sponge or soft cloth and rinse it frequently while washing to avoid scratches. 3. To avoid scratches, please wear soft gloves. Remove finger rings, nails, wrist watch while washing. CAR CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES 4. To remove stubborn stains and con- taminants like tar, use turpentine or cleaners like ‘Stain remover’ which are safe for paint surfaces. 5. Avoid substances like petrol, diesel, erosene, benzene, thinner, acids or other solvents that cause damage to paint. 6. Dry your vehicle thoroughly to pre- vent any damp spots. 7. Rinse all surfaces thoroughly to pre- vent any traces of soap and other cleaners as this may lead to the for- mation of stains on the painted sur- ace later. NOTE Avoid parking the car under trees without proper cover, it will reduce the amount of bird droppings, tree sap and pollen contact on paint surface. Regularly remove the twigs, leaves and vegetation near the windshield areas, to avoid wa- ter stagnation. Do not direct

twigs, leaves and vegetation near the windshield areas, to avoid wa- ter stagnation. Do not direct high pressure washer fluid/ water jets (Pressure above 0.5 Bar) at electrical devices and connecter during washing. This is to prevent malfunction / failure of electrical system due to water in- gress. After drying the vehicle, inspect it for chips and scratches that could allow cor- rosion to start. Apply touch up paint where necessary. Cleaning of Carpets Vacuum clean the carpet regularly to re- move dirt. Dirt will make the carpet wear out faster. Periodically shampoo the car- pet to keep it looking new. Use carpet cleaners (preferably foam type). Follow the instructions that come with the cleaner. Apply it with a sponge or soft brush. Keep the carpeting as dry as possible by not adding water to the foam. 197  CAR CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES NOTE Avoid wiping of painted surface in dry condition as it may leave scratches on the painted surface. Cleaning of Windows, Front and Rear

dry condition as it may leave scratches on the painted surface. Cleaning of Windows, Front and Rear Glasses Clean the windows inside and outside with commercially available glass clean- ers. This will remove the haze that builds up on the inside of windows. Use a soft cloth or paper towels to clean all glass and plastic surfaces. 198 FAST TAG FAST TAG is pasted on front windshield from the inside. It enables Electronic toll collection. => Pi I FPASta NOTE Do not attempt to rip or tamper the tag. It will disable the functionality of the tag. Waxing Waxing and polishing is recommended to maintain the gloss and wet-look ap- pearance of your paint finish. 1. Use good quality polish and wax for your vehicle. 2. Re-wax your vehicle when the water does not slip off the surface but col- lects over the surface in patches. Polishing Polishes and cleaners can restore shine to the painted surface that has oxidized and become dull. They normally contain mild abrasives and solvents that remove the

has oxidized and become dull. They normally contain mild abrasives and solvents that remove the top layer of the finish coat. Polish your vehicle, if the finish does not regain its original shine after using wax. Interior fabric cleaning tips 1. Stains should be treated immedi- ately. If left for a long time, they can leave a permanent mark. 2. Cleaning the stains immediately is important especially for stains which contain artificial colors in the stain creating liquid or semisolid sub- stance. The colorant may leave a stain if kept for longer time. 3. Stain should not be removed by rub- bing. As far as possible, try to blot or lift the stain with cloth or plastic spat- ula and then clean the remaining stain with cloth or sponge.  4. If the stain has dried, then gently brush off the material and then press with damp cloth or sponge till it dis- appears. 5. Do not use household detergents to clean the fabric. 6. Always use clean cotton cloth for cleaning. Paint Care Following

detergents to clean the fabric. 6. Always use clean cotton cloth for cleaning. Paint Care Following guidelines will help you to pro- tect your Vehicle from corrosion effec- tively. Avoid spillage or direct contact of air freshener liquid/ chemicals to interior painted plastic parts. These chemicals may cause dam- age to paint like blisters, peel off, wrinkles etc. CAR CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES Proper cleaning In order to protect your vehicle from cor- rosion it is recommended that you wash your vehicle thoroughly and frequently in case: e There is a heavy accumulation of dirt and mud especially on the under- body. e It is driven in areas having high at- mospheric pollution due to smoke, soot, dust, iron dust and other chem- ical pollutants. e Itis driven in coastal areas. e The underbody must be thoroughly pressure washed after every three months. In addition to regularly washing your car, the following precautions need to be taken. Periodic Inspection e Regularly inspect your

your car, the following precautions need to be taken. Periodic Inspection e Regularly inspect your vehicle for any damage in the paint film such as deep scratches and immediately get them repaired from an authorized service outlet, as these defects tend to accelerate corrosion. e Inspect mud liners for damages. e Keep all drain holes clear from clog- ging. Proper Parking e Always park your vehicle in shade to protect it from harsh sunlight or in a well-ventilated garage so that there is no dampness on any part of the ve- hicle. Wiper care e To prevent damage to the wipers or windshield, do not operate the wip- ers when the windshield is dry. e To prevent damage to the wiper arms and other components, do not at- tempt to move the wipers manually. 199  CAR CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES Value Care —- AMC Value Care (AMC) is a fixed cost maintenance plan that guarantees protection against unex- 3 | TATA TATA MOT! Best v pected repairs & provides substantial savings through protection

unex- 3 | TATA TATA MOT! Best v pected repairs & provides substantial savings through protection against inflation & price vol- atility of consumables during the running of the vehicle. Our customers can choose from Value Care Gold, Value Care Silver, Promise to Protect (P2P) and Protect plus plan as per the requirement & usage to ensure hassle free, reliable & economic maintenance of the vehicle. Coverage - Schedule Service and Wear & tear. Advantage (Customer Benefits) VA L E C ry R E e Price protection against rising prices of lubes and parts. RATER ANCE REAM e Ahigher resale value for your vehicle e Peace of mind with Cashless repairs & services. e Vehicle servicing at a workshop of your choice pan India e Covers Repairs including Wear & Tear parts viz. Brakes, Suspension, Wiper, Clutch, Brake Pads, Brake Liners etc. e Covers Scheduled maintenance services including Lubricants, Parts, Wheel Alignment and Balancing Labour. e Available at unmatched value.....Huge Savings!!! e

Parts, Wheel Alignment and Balancing Labour. e Available at unmatched value.....Huge Savings!!! e Savings on Goods & Services Tax whenever vehicle attend under AMC. 200  CAR CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES Available offers (Types of AMC) e Silver AMC © Gold AMC e Promise to Protect ( P2P) e Protect Plus Silver AMC - Value Care Silver Plan covers the following: e Scheduled maintenance services at periodic interval of Kms for Labor, Parts & Consumables. a. Change of Oil Filter, Fuel Filter, Air Filter & Sedimenter. b. Change of Engine Oil, Transmission Oil. c. Change of Coolant, Brake Oil & Clutch Fluid*. d. General Checkup, Wheel Alignment / Balancing (Excluding Balancing Weight). e. Washing of Vehicle, Wheel greasing as applicable. Gold AMC - The value care Gold Plan extends your scheduled maintenance cover to include any normal wear and tear items identified during the scheduled service and other vehicle parts that need to replace during the period of cover arising from proper and

and other vehicle parts that need to replace during the period of cover arising from proper and uniform usage. e Scheduled maintenance services at periodic interval of Kms for Labor, Parts & Consumables. 201  CAR CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES In addition to coverage mentioned under Silver AMC, the Gold AMC also covers Repairs or Replacement of Wear & Tear Items for both Parts & Labour. a. Brake Pads, Brake Liners, Wheel Cylinders b. Clutch Disc, Clutch Cover, Cables, Mountings. c. Suspension Bush, Wiper Blades, Auxiliary Belt & other Wear & Tear Items d. Washing of Vehicle, Wheel greasing as applicable. Promise to Protect (P2P) - Value Care - Promise to protect (P2P) is a maintenance plan that guarantees protection against unexpected wear & tear repairs to provide substantial saving through protection against inflation & price volatility during the running of the vehicle. New Vehicle (under warranty vehicles) are eligible to avail this offer -Identified 13 wear & tear parts listed

(under warranty vehicles) are eligible to avail this offer -Identified 13 wear & tear parts listed below Including Labour is covered in this AMC with the price range of 11 to 14 paisa per Km .*applicable to selected models* List of covered Parts- Clutch, Brake Pad, Brake Linings, Brake Disc, Wiper, Wheel Cylinder, Suspension Bushes, Engine Mount- ings, Ball Joints, Hoses, Auxiliary Belt, (Alternator & A/C Belt), Window Winder. Protect Plus - The value care Protect plus Plan extends your scheduled maintenance cover to include coverage of P2P. It covers Scheduled maintenance services - labour, parts & consumables + Identified 13 wear & tear parts of P2P plan Including Labour New Vehicle (under warranty vehicles) are eligible to avail this offer.*applicable to selected models*. 202  CAR CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES NOTE e AMCis available in the dealership from where you have purchased your vehicle. e We strongly recommend purchase of AMC at time of purchase of your vehicle to get

your vehicle. e We strongly recommend purchase of AMC at time of purchase of your vehicle to get benefit for coverage of Scheduled Services and Wear & Tear parts. e The Dealer Service Marketing Executive shall explain to you the Terms and conditions, Coverage and Owner’s responsi- bility. e One Time payment is to be made to avail AMC offer. e P2P & Protect plus offer valid on selected models & may vary from Model to Model, Variant to Variant. e Please read the offer eBooklet for further details about coverage and exclusions of various AMCs. e *Terms & condition apply. Owner’s Responsibility: e Proper use, maintenance and care of the vehicle in accordance with the instructions contained in the Owner’s Manual and Service Booklet. The records of the same to be ensured in Owner’s Manual. e Retention of maintenance service bills. | / We have been explained the Terms and conditions, Coverage and Owner’s responsibility by the Dealer Service Marketing Executive. oO | wish to avail A Do not

and Owner’s responsibility by the Dealer Service Marketing Executive. oO | wish to avail A Do not wish to avail Value care AMC policy. Customer’s Signature Dealer’s Signature 203  CAR CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES Extended Warranty TATA MOTORS recommends the purchase of its extended warranty program. Coverage - Mechanical + Electrical Benefits e Insures you against unforeseen break down repair bills. e Documentation is simple and hassle free. e Near cashless & speedy claim Term 24 + 12 months or 75,000 kms whichever occurs first OR 24 + 24 months or 1,00,000 kms whichever occurs first OR 24 + 36 months or 1,25,000 kms whichever occurs first TATA MOTORS | SERVICE TATA BEST VALUE a + = EXTENDED WARRANTY UP TO 4 YEARS Extended Warranty is available in the dealership from where you have purchased your vehicle. We strongly recommend purchase of Extended Warranty at time of purchase of your vehicle. Extended Warranty can be availed till warranty period from date of purchase of vehicle. The

Extended Warranty can be availed till warranty period from date of purchase of vehicle. The Dealer Service Marketing Executive shall explain to you the Terms and conditions, Coverage and Owner’s responsibility. 204  CAR CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES e The 12 or 24 or 36 months extended warranty does not follow the 24 months Manufacturer's warranty. e The extended warranty comes into force once the manufacturer’s warranty expires e.g. after 24 Months. e Itis more restrictive as by the time it comes into force the vehicle is already 24 months old. What is covered? e Mechanical / Electrical break down as defined in this warranty and confirmed by the dealer within the stipulated terms and conditions. e TATA MOTORS dealer shall either repair or replace any part found to be defective with a new part or an equivalent at no cost to the owner for parts or labour. e Such defective parts which have been replaced will become property of TATA MOTORS LIMITED. e Comprehensive list of parts covered

been replaced will become property of TATA MOTORS LIMITED. e Comprehensive list of parts covered is mentioned in the Extended Warranty Booklet. What is not covered? Please refer the Extended Warranty Booklet for details of the exclusion list. Soft copy of which will be provided by dealer. Owner’s Responsibility: e Proper use, maintenance and care of the vehicle in accordance with the instructions contained in the Owner’s Manual and Service Booklet. The records of the same to be ensured in Owner’s Manual. e Retention of maintenance service bills. | / We have been explained the Terms and conditions, Coverage and Owner's responsibility by the Dealer Service Marketing Executive. oO | wish to avail / O Do not wish to avail extended warrant policy. Customer’s Signature Dealer’s Signature 205  CAR CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES Value Added Services Why are Corrosion Protection Waxes neces- sary? — WURTH BARDAHL AUt@-6 a Corrosion is caused by: Water/salt water, acid rain and atmospheric

sary? — WURTH BARDAHL AUt@-6 a Corrosion is caused by: Water/salt water, acid rain and atmospheric fallouts. CAR CARE Critical areas are: Cavities: joints, crevices, spot welds, underbody e Corrosion is the most important factor when we talk about the vehicle life. If you treat your car well, you can prolong its life. e It is very dangerous to drive around in a corroded vehicle. e Corrosion creeps onto the vehicle internally and externally as well. The most dangerous kind of corrosion is often not discov- ered until it is too late. Benefits of Anti - Rust treatment: e Aprofessionally applied range of world class products offering real value to the new and used vehicle customer. e The treatment has been developed to withstand the harshest environmental and climatic conditions (rust. Pollutants, stone and gravel impact, etc.) e Insulates the cabin from external noises.. e Expensive tin work, denting and painting can be avoided. e Higher resale value for the vehicle. e Higher safety -

work, denting and painting can be avoided. e Higher resale value for the vehicle. e Higher safety - uncorroded vehicle e 10 free checkups available 206  CAR CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES TATA MOTORS has tied up with M/s Wurth, M/s Autokrom, M/s 3M India Ltd & M/s Bardahl for these world class treatment at affordable prices. These treatments are available in all authorized workshops. The Dealer Service Marketing Executive will explain to you the benefits and terms and conditions of this treatment. | /We have been explained the Benefits, Terms and conditions and the prices of these treatments by the Dealer Service Marketing Executive. O | wish to avail /LJ Do not wish to avail extended warrant policy. Customer’s Signature Dealer’s Signature 207  CAR CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES Vehicle Exterior Enrichment | = | == Why vehicles are painted? e ForCorrosion protection of the metal surfaces. e Ease of application from other corrosion protection treatments. CAR CARE i Aut 0 ¢ Cheaperthan

e Ease of application from other corrosion protection treatments. CAR CARE i Aut 0 ¢ Cheaperthan other corrosion protection methods eg. Galvanizing, ano- ron dizing. e Fordecoration and identification. Various Environmental Hazards affecting paints Environmental hazards: destroys your vehicle's finish. Even as your new vehicle rolls off the assembly line, the paint is not protected. The enemy Ultraviolet rays, pollution, tree sap, bird droppings, car wash chemicals, road salt and acid rain. Benefits: Vehicle Exterior Enrichment e Removal of medium scratches, orange peel, oxidation, dust nibs etc. & swirl marks from painted surface. e Restoration of original gloss levels, UV protection after gloss is restored. e Cleaning & dressing of tyres, Bumpers and all exterior plastic moldings/trims. TATA MOTORS has tied up with M/s Autokrom, M/s 3M & M/s Wurth for this world class treatment at affordable prices. This treatment is available in all authorized workshops. The Dealer Service

at affordable prices. This treatment is available in all authorized workshops. The Dealer Service Marketing Executive will explain to you the benefits and terms and conditions of this treatment. 208  CAR CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES Vehicle Interior Enrichment Why protect your new car’s fabric interior? Someone may soil your vehicle's fabric carpet or seats. A significant detractor from your vehicle's resale value. A permanent stain on your vehicle's interior fabric. The enemy: Drink spills, food stains, mud, ultraviolet rays, traffic and pets Benefits: Vehicle Interior Enrichment Removal of medium stains and dirt from all interior parts of the car i.e., carpet, upholstery and roof lining. Cleaning of windshield and all windows (inner and outer surfaces) Dressing of all internal plastics (e.g.: door pad trims) and rubber parts. The treatment involves cleaning and dressing of all parts of the exposed interiors. Specialised protection for seat fabric from liquid spills. TATA MOTORS has

the exposed interiors. Specialised protection for seat fabric from liquid spills. TATA MOTORS has tied up with M/s Wurth and M/s Autokrom for this world class treatment at affordable prices. This treatment is available in all authorized workshops. The Dealer Service Marketing Executive will explain to you the benefits and terms and conditions of this treatment. | / We have been explained the Terms and conditions, Coverage and Owner’s responsibility by the Dealer Service Marketing Executive. O | wish to avail /O) Do not wish to avail extended warrant policy. Customer’s Signature Dealer’s Signature 209  210  We WARRANT each TATA ALTROZ vehicle and parts thereof manufactured by us to be free from defect in material and workmanship subject to the following terms and conditions: 1. This warranty shall be for a period of 2 years from the date of sale of the car or a mileage of 75,000 Kms whichever occurs earlier. 2. Our obligation under this warranty shall be limited to repair- ing or

whichever occurs earlier. 2. Our obligation under this warranty shall be limited to repair- ing or replacing, free of charge, such parts of the car which, in our opinion, are defective, on the car being brought to us or to our dealers within the period. The parts so repaired or replaced shall also be warranted for quality and workman- ship but such warranty shall be co-terminus with this origi- nal warranty. 3. Any part which is found to be defective and is replaced by us under the warranty shall be our property. 4. As for such parts as Tyres, Batteries, Audio and / or Video equipment (if any), etc. not manufactured by us but sup- plied by other parties, this warranty shall not apply, but buy- ers of the car shall be entitled to, so far as permissible by law, all such rights as we may have against such parties under their warranties in respect of such parts. 5. This warranty shall not apply if the car or any part thereof is repaired or altered otherwise than in accordance with our

apply if the car or any part thereof is repaired or altered otherwise than in accordance with our standard repair procedure or by any person other than from WARRANTY - TERMS AND CONDITIONS our sales or service establishments, our authorized deal- ers, service centres or service points in any way so as, in our judgment which shall be final and binding, to affect its reliability, nor shall it apply if, in our opinion which shall be final and binding, the car is subjected to misuse, negli- gence, improper or inadequate maintenance or accident or loading in excess of such carrying capacity as certified by us, or such services as prescribed in our Owner's Manual are not carried out by the buyer through our sales or service establishments, our authorized dealers, service centres or service points. This warranty shall not apply to the replacement of nor- mal wear parts, including without limitation, spark plugs, drive belts, hoses, wiper blades, fuses, clutch disc, brake shoes, brake pads,

spark plugs, drive belts, hoses, wiper blades, fuses, clutch disc, brake shoes, brake pads, cables and all rubber parts (except oil seal and glass run). This warranty shall not cover any inherent normal deterio- ration of the car or any of its parts arising from the actual use of the car or any damage due to negligent or improper operation or storage of the car. This warranty shall not apply to normal maintenance ser- vices like oils & fluid changes, head lamps focusing, fas- tener retightening, wheel balancing and alignment, tyre ro- tation, adjustment of valve clearance, fuel timing, ignition 211  WARRANTY - TERMS AND CONDITIONS 10. 11. 12. timing and consumables like bulbs, fuel, air & oil filters and gas leaks in case of air conditioned cars. This warranty shall not apply to any damage or deteriora- tion caused by environmental pollution or bird droppings. Slight irregularities not recognized as affecting the function or quality of the vehicle or parts, such as slight noise or vi-

as affecting the function or quality of the vehicle or parts, such as slight noise or vi- bration, defects appearing only under particular or irregular operations are items considered characteristics of the ve- hicle. This warranty shall be null and void if the car is subjected to abnormal use such as rallying, racing or participation in any other competitive sport. This warranty shall not apply to any repair or replacements as a result of accident or col- lision. This warranty is expressly in lieu of all warranties, whether by law or otherwise, expressed or implied, and all other ob- ligations or liabilities on our part and we neither assume, nor authorize any person to assume on our behalf, any other liability arising from the sale of the car or any agree- ment in relation thereto. The buyer shall have no other rights except those set out above and have, in particular, no right to repudiate the sale, or any agreement or to claim any reduction in the purchase 212 13. 14. price of the

the sale, or any agreement or to claim any reduction in the purchase 212 13. 14. price of the car, or to demand any damages or compensa- tion for losses, incidental or indirect, or inconvenience or consequential damages, loss of car, or loss of time, or oth- erwise, incurred or accrued. Any claim arising from this warranty shall be recognized only if it is notified in writing to us or to our authorized dealer without any delay soon after such defects as cov- ered & ascertained under this warranty. This warranty is fully transferable to subsequent vehi- cle owner. Only unexpired remaining period of war- ranty applies. We reserve our rights to make any change or modification in design of the car or its parts or to introduce any improvement therein or to incorporate in the car any additional part or ac- cessory at any time without incurring any obligation to incorpo- rate the same in the cars previously sold  TATA MOTORS LTD. is committed to produce vehicles using en- vironmentally

the cars previously sold  TATA MOTORS LTD. is committed to produce vehicles using en- vironmentally sustainable technology. A number of features have been incorporated in TATA MOTORS passenger vehicles which have been designed to ensure environmental compati- bility throughout the life cycle of the vehicle. We would like to inform you that your vehicle meets BS VI emission norms and this is being regularly validated at the manufacturing stages. As a user you too can protect the environment by operating your vehicle in a proactive manner. A lot depends on your driv- ing style and the way you maintain your vehicle. We have given a few tips for your guidance. Driving > Avoid frequent and violent acceleration. > Do not carry any unnecessary weight in the vehicle as it overloads the engine. Avoid using devices requiring high power consumption during slow city traffic condition. > Monitor the vehicle’s fuel consumption regularly and if showing rising trend get the vehicle immediately

the vehicle’s fuel consumption regularly and if showing rising trend get the vehicle immediately attended at the Company’s Authorised Service Outlets. > Switch off the engine during long stops at traffic jams or signals. If you need to keep the engine running, avoid un- necessary revving it or stopping and starting. > Itis not necessary to rev the engine before turning it off as it unnecessarily burns fuel. ENVIRONMENT SAFETY > Shift to higher gears as soon as it is possible. Use each gear upto 2/3rd of its maximum engine speed. > Achart indicating gear shifting speeds is given in this book. Maintenance > Ensure that recommended maintenance is carried out on the vehicle regularly at the Authorised Service Outlets. As soon as you see any leakages of oil or fuel in the vehicle we recommend to get it attended immediately. > Use only recommended grades and specified quantity of ubricants. Vv > Get your vehicle checked for emission periodically by an authorised dealer. Check Air filter,

Vv > Get your vehicle checked for emission periodically by an authorised dealer. Check Air filter, fuel filter and oil filter periodically and re- placed, if required, as recommended by TATA MOTORS. Do not pour used oils or coolants into the sewage drains, garden soil or open streams. Dispose the used filters and atteries in compliance with the current legislation. Do not allow unauthorized person to tamper with engine settings or to carry modifications on the vehicle. Never allow the vehicle to run out of fuel. Parts like brake liners, clutch discs should be vacuum cleaned. Do not use compressed air for cleaning these parts, which may spread hazardous dust in the atmos- phere. Vv Vv Vv Vv 213  ENVIRONMENT SAFETY While carrying out servicing or repairs of your vehicle, you should pay keen attention to some of the important engine aggregates and wiring harnesses, which greatly affect emission. These components are: For Diesel: 1. Fuel injection equipment- pump, rail, injectors, nozzles

These components are: For Diesel: 1. Fuel injection equipment- pump, rail, injectors, nozzles and high-pressure pipes. 2. Air Intake & Exhaust system, especially for leakages. Cylinder head for valve leakage. All filters such as air, oil and fuel filters (check periodi- cally). Turbocharger. EGR Valve & Cooler Intake throttle Electrical connections. If the ‘Check Engine lamp’, ‘MIL’ or ‘DPF’ lamp continu- ously glows, please take the vehicle to a TATA MOTORS Authorized Dealer/Service Center. 10. Catalytic Converter.(LNT - Lean NOx trap & DPF for Die- sel ) 11. EMS wiring harness i.e. electrical connections to all sen- sors and actuators. Ro OCMONAMN 214 For Petrol: 1. Engine Management System (EMS) e ECU e EMSsensors & Corresponding wiring harness e Electrical connections to all sensors & actuators 2. Fuel Injection System e Fuel Pump e Fuel filter e Fuel Injectors 3. Air intake System e Air filter & connecting pipes 4. Exhaust after Treatment System e Catalytic Converter 5. Ignition

e Air filter & connecting pipes 4. Exhaust after Treatment System e Catalytic Converter 5. Ignition System e = Ignition coil plug This Owner’s manual contains further information on driving precautions and maintenance care leading to environment protection. Please familiarize yourself with these aspects be- fore driving. e Spar  11189812 TATA-A-OWNER’S MANUAL Cover page 440 mm X 145 mm TATA MOTORS ‘Gannecting Aspirations _~ FUTROZ OWNER'S MANUAL Call us:1-800-209-7979 Mail us: customercare@tatamotors.com Visit us: service.tatamotors.com 5442 5840 9903 Developed by: Technical Literature CelLERC.

