<p TATA HARRIER BSVI OWNER’S MANUAL TATA MOTORS  CUSTOMER ASSISTANCE In our constant endeavor to provide assistance and complete service backup, TATA MOTORS has established an all India cus- tomer assistance centre. In case you have a query regarding any aspect of your vehicle, our Customer Assistance Centre will be glad to assist you on our Toll Free no. 1800 209 7979 oc) DOORSTEP SERVICE MOBILE SERVICE eg 24x7 ‘ON-ROAD ASSISTANCE, 4800 209 7979 FASTER SERVIC! DELIVERY DIAGNOSTIC EXPERT HIGH SKILLED TECHNICIAN, QUALITY SERVICE SERVICE QUALITY ASSURANCE ASSESSMENT TRAINING AND CERTIFICATION You can also approach nearest TATA MOTORS dealer. A sepa- rate Dealer network address booklet is provided with the Owner’s manual. TATA MOTORS 24X7 Roadside Assistance Program offers tech- nical help in the event of a breakdown. Call the toll-free Road- side Assistance. For additional information, refer to "24X7 Roadside Assis- tance" section in the Owner’s manual. “ey Quick REPAIR REFINISHING

refer to "24X7 Roadside Assis- tance" section in the Owner’s manual. “ey Quick REPAIR REFINISHING SOLUTIONS. REPAIR IN MINUTES, BODY & PAINT ONLINE SERVICE APPOINTMENT AT A CLICK ania me TATA MoTORS [5 EXTENDED WARRANTY UP TO 4 YEARS VALUE CARE MAINTENANCE PLANS RAPID REPAIR MINOR BODY REPAIRS  FORWARD Dear Customer, Welcome to the TATA MOTORS family. We congratulate you on the purchase of your new vehicle and are privileged to have you as our valued customer. We urge you to read this Owner's Manual carefully and familiarize yourself with the equipment descriptions and operating instruc- tions before driving. Always carry out prescribed service / maintenance work as well as any required repairs at an authorized TATA MOTORS Dealers or Authorized Service Centre’s (TASCs). Use only genuine parts for continued reliability, safety and performance of your vehicle. You are welcome to contact our dealer or Customer Assistance toll free no. (1800 209 7979) in case of any query or support

our dealer or Customer Assistance toll free no. (1800 209 7979) in case of any query or support required. We wish you a safe and pleasant driving experience. TATA MOTORS  IMPORTANT INFORMATION Before driving, read this Owner’s manual carefully and familiarize yourself with your vehicle. For your own safety and a longer vehicle life, follow the instructions, ‘Warnings’ and ‘Notes’ in this manual. Ignoring them could result in damage to the vehicle or personal injury to you or others. The Owner’s manual and other booklets are important documents and should always be kept in the vehicle. If you sell the vehicle, always pass on the documents to the new owner. This Owner's Manual describes all variants of the model and all standard/optional equipment of your vehicle available at the time of printing. Please note that your vehicle may not be equipped with all features described. TATA MOTORS Limited reserves the right to introduce changes in the design, equipment and technical features

Limited reserves the right to introduce changes in the design, equipment and technical features without any obligation to install them on the vehicles previously sold. The equipment in your vehicle may therefore differ from that shown in the descriptions and illustrations. Do not carry out any modification including fitment of non-genuine accessories on your vehicle. Safety, handling, performance and durability, may otherwise be adversely affected and may violate government regulations. TATA MOTORS Limited accepts no liability for damage resulting from the modifications or use of non-genuine accessories. All rights reserved. The information in this manual shall not be copied, translated or otherwise reproduced, in whole or in part, without written permission from TATA MOTORS. © Copyright 2020 TATA MOTORS  CONTENTS [a Safety | Opening & Closing [<] Dashboard & Features Important Information Keys Cockpit Safe Driving 01 Doors 33 Instrument Cluster (for TFT) 48 Seat Belts 04 Windows 34

Keys Cockpit Safe Driving 01 Doors 33 Instrument Cluster (for TFT) 48 Seat Belts 04 Windows 34 Driver Information System 52 Child Restraint System (CRS) 08 Bonnet Opening 36 Display Messages 61 Air Bags 12 Tailgate Opening 38 Instrument Cluster (for LCD) 69 Child Lock 19 Fuel Lid 40 Driver Information System 73 Anti-theft Device: Immobilizer 20 Power Sunroof 41 Display Messages 78 ABS 21 Tell Tales 81 EBD 22 Audio Reminders 90 Additional safety features 22 Combi Switches 91 Fascia Switches 94  CONTENTS [s) Dashboard & Features 3 | Dashboard & Features | 4 | Stowage Areas Steering Wheel Switches Puddle / Ajar Lamp Glove Box Mic 97 Roof Lamp 102 Goggle Holder 108 Infotainment System Display 97 Side Reading lamps 103 Utility Pockets on Front Doors 108 Speakers & Tweeter 98 Boot Lamp 104 Utility Pockets on Rear Doors 109 USB/AUX 98 Side Indicator Lamp Mobile / Wallet Stowage 109 on ORVM 104 Smart charger 99 Cup Holder 109 Front Lamp 104 Power Socket 99 Stowage for Rear Passenger 110 Tail

Smart charger 99 Cup Holder 109 Front Lamp 104 Power Socket 99 Stowage for Rear Passenger 110 Tail Lamp 105 Antenna 100 Stowage below Arm Rest 110 Roof Grab Handles 100 Foldable Arm Rest 110 Front Fog Lamp 101 Tailgate Compartment 411 Rear Fog Lamp 101 vi  Hooks Front seat back pockets 112 Air Distribution Air Vents 114 Side vent for rear passenger 114 HVAC Controls 115 Fully Automatic Temperature Control (FATC) 119 Quick Cooling 124 FATC Sensors 124 CONTENTS fa | Stowage Areas fs | Climate Control | 6 | Starting & Driving Pre-Driving Checks Driving Tips Seat Adjustments Rear Seat folding Rear View Mirrors Sun Visors Steering Wheel Adjustments Steering Lock Cum Ignition Switch Starting and Stopping Gear Shifting & Driving 126 129 132 134 137 138 139 139 141 vii  CONTENTS 6 | Starting & Driving fs | Starting & Driving 7 Emergency & Break- down Assistance Reverse Gear Vehicle Parking Emergency Equipment 173 Braking 142 Reverse Park Assist 159 Hazard Warning Switch 176 Automatic

Emergency Equipment 173 Braking 142 Reverse Park Assist 159 Hazard Warning Switch 176 Automatic Transmission 142 Reverse Park Assist with Sensor 159 In Case of Flat Tyre 176 Shift Lever Manually Unlock 145 Reverse Park Assist with Jump Lead Starting 180 Shift Lock System 148 Camera 162 Towing 182 Starting and Stopping (PEPS) 150 Drive Mode 169 Fuses 184 Starting the Engine 152 Terrain Response Mode 169 Bulb Specification 194 Gear Shifting and Driving 154 24x7 Road Side Assistance 196 Braking 155 Driving 156 Parking Brake 157 viii  Maintenance & Service Engine Compartment Oil / Fluid Level Battery Tyres Remote Key Battery Replacement On Board Diagnostic (OBD) Diesel Particulate Filter (DPF) Warning Indicator Service Schedule Parking for Long Durations 202 203 207 210 212 214 215 217 223 Exhaust After Treatment System 223 CONTENTS Fs | Maintenance | 8 | Maintenance | 3 | Technical Information Fuel Specification Lubricant Specification 232 Technical Specification 233 Vehicle Dimensions

Fuel Specification Lubricant Specification 232 Technical Specification 233 Vehicle Dimensions 237 Aggregate Identification Nos 238  CONTENTS Car Care and Value Warranty — Terms and Environment Safety Conditions ie Added Services Car Care 239 Warranty — Environment Safety 255 Terms & Conditions 253 Washing 239 Waxing 240 Polishing 240 Interior Fabric Cleaning 240 Paint Care 241 Wiper Care 241 Value Care AMC 242 Extended Warranty 246 Value Added Services 248  Important Information In this Owner's Manual, you will find the text under the heading “WARNING” and “NOTE” which highlights important infor- mation. Pay particular attention to these highlighted messages. NOTE Indicates additional information that will assist you in gaining the optimum benefit and care for your vehicle. Indicates procedures or _ infor- mation that must be followed pre- cisely in order to avoid the possibil- ity of severe personal injury and se- rious damage to the vehicle. Safe Driving Safety consciousness not

severe personal injury and se- rious damage to the vehicle. Safe Driving Safety consciousness not only ensures your safety and the safety of other road users, but it also helps to reduce the wear and tear on your vehicle. Safe driving depends on: e How quickly you make decisions to avoid an accident. e Your ability to concentrate. e How well you can see and judge ob- jects. e How well familiar you are with your vehicle controls and its capabilities. NOTE Fatigue is a result of physical or mental exertion that impairs judg- ment. Driver fatigue may be due to inadequate sleep, extended work hours, strenuous work or non-work activities or combination of other factors. Take rest at regular inter- vals. SAFETY Safety Tips e Always take into account the road conditions, weather conditions, vehi- cle speed in order to prevent acci- dents. e Turn ‘ON’ the side indicators at least 30 meters before taking a turn or changing the lane. e Decelerate to a safe speed before taking turn. Do not apply

taking a turn or changing the lane. e Decelerate to a safe speed before taking turn. Do not apply brakes dur- ing cornering. e When overtaking other vehicles, watch out for the oncoming vehicle. Never drive under the influence of al- cohol or drugs. e If your vehicle is equipped with info- tainment/navigation system, set and make changes to your travel route only when the vehicle is parked. e Program radio presets with the vehi- cle parked, and use your pro- grammed presets to make radio use quicker and simpler.  SAFETY Driving Through Water Do not drive through flooded areas. Judge the depth of water before driving through it. Otherwise, water may enter the vehicle interior or the engine com- partment. If at all the situation demands that you have to drive through water then; e Keep engine in higher RPM and crawl the vehicle in low gear. e Flowing or rushing water creates strong forces. Driving through flow- ing water could cause the vehicle to be carried away. Be cautious while

Driving through flow- ing water could cause the vehicle to be carried away. Be cautious while driving through flowing water. e Lightly apply the brake pedal to dry the liners until the brakes work nor- mally once you are out of water. Do not attempt to start the engine if vehicle gets flooded due to water. Tow the vehicle to a safe place. Contact a nearest TATA MOTORS Authorised Service Centre Driving on a Rainy Day e Check wiper blades, lights and brakes for proper functioning and condition. e Check the tyre treads depth, the con- dition of the tread and tyre. e Avoid harsh braking and sharp turns. It may cause loss of control and lead toa skid. e Forslowing down, shift to lower gears and brake gently. e Keep lights ‘ON’ if visibility is poor. Driving on Wet Roads On wet road or during light showers, “Aq- uaplaning” can occur. “Aquaplaning” is the loss of direct contact between the road surface and the vehicle’s tires due to a water film forming between them. Steering or braking the

surface and the vehicle’s tires due to a water film forming between them. Steering or braking the vehicle can be very difficult, and loss of control can oc- cur. There is no hard and fast rule about aq- uaplaning. The best advice is to slow down when the road is wet. NOTE If you have driven for a long time in heavy rain without braking, there may be a delayed reaction from the brakes when braking for the first time. You have to press the brake pedal more firmly. Maintain a greater distance from the vehicle in front. Driving on Snowy Roads While driving in snow, it is advisable to use the snow chain on roads. Follow as- sembly and safety instruction provided by the snow chain manufacturers.  Night Driving Ensure that all lights are working and windshield, window glasses are clean. Drive more slowly at night than in the daytime, as the visual range is re- stricted at night. Maintain a speed such that you can stop within illumi- nated distance of headlamps. Do not use the high beam

a speed such that you can stop within illumi- nated distance of headlamps. Do not use the high beam unless in- evitable. It may dazzle the driver of the oncoming vehicle, thus causing an accident. Use headlamp main/dip beam to alert other road users on turns/ cross roads etc. Use side indicators for lane change or turning. Driving on Gradients When climbing gradient, the vehicle may begin to slow down and show a lack of power. If this happens, shift to a lower gear and apply power smoothly so that there is no loss of traction. When driving down a hill, the engine braking should be used by shifting into a lower gear. Do not drive in neutral gear or switch off the engine. On long and steep gradients you must reduce the load on the brakes by shifting early to a lower gear. This allows you to take advantage of the engine braking effect and helps avoid overheating of service brakes resulting in reduced braking efficiency. SAFETY Driving on Highway Stopping distance progressively _ in-

in reduced braking efficiency. SAFETY Driving on Highway Stopping distance progressively _ in- creases with vehicle speed. Maintain a sufficient distance between your vehicle and the vehicle ahead. For long distance driving, perform safety checks before starting a trip and take rest at certain intervals to prevent fa- tigue.  SAFETY Seat Belts This section of user manual describes your vehicle seat belt, airbag and Child restraints system. Please read and fol- low all these instructions carefully to minimise risk of severe injury or death. e Seat belts are the primary restraints system in the vehicle. All occupants, including the driver, should always wear their seat belts to minimize the risk of injury. e Sit back and adjust (if equipped), the seat. Make sure that your seat is ad- justed to a good driving position and the back of the seat is upright. Buckling the Shoulder Seat Belt e Grasp the tongue and slowly pull out the seat belt over the shoulder and across the chest. When the

Grasp the tongue and slowly pull out the seat belt over the shoulder and across the chest. When the seat belt is long enough to fit, insert the tongue into the lock buckle until you hear a “CLICK” which indicates that the seat belt is securely locked. e Position the lap portion of seat belt across your pelvic bone (hips), below your abdomen. To remove slack, pull up a bit on the shoulder seat belt. To loosen the lap portion seat belt if it is too tight, tilt the tongue and pull on the lap seat belt. A snug seat belt re- duces the risk of sliding under the seat belt in a collision. Ensure that the seat belt running over the body (shoulder segment and lap segment) does not have any twist. Twisted seat belt may not offer effective protec- tion when required. Releasing the Seat Belt To release the seat belt, push the red button on the lock buckle. The seat belt will automatically retract to its stowed position. If necessary, slide the tongue down the webbing to allow the seat belt to

to its stowed position. If necessary, slide the tongue down the webbing to allow the seat belt to retract fully. NOTE The above images are for reference purpose only.  Fixed Rear Centre Lap Seat Belt e When buckling, make sure you hear a click confirming that the tab is latched into the seat belt lock. To tighten it, pull the loose end through the buckle until the seat belt is com- fortably adjusted around the pelvic bone (hips). e ach seating position and seat belt assembly must be used by one occupant. It is not recommended to put a seat belt around a child, being carried on an occupant's lap. e Be careful not to damage or tamper the seat belt webbing or hardware. Inspect the seat belt system periodically, checking for cuts, frays, or loose parts. A frayed or torn seat belt could rip apart in a collision and leave you with no protection. If the seat belt webbing or hardware is damaged, get it replaced immediately at TATA Motors Authorized service centre. Do not insert any items such

get it replaced immediately at TATA Motors Authorized service centre. Do not insert any items such as coins, clips, etc. into the seat belt buckles, and be careful not to spill liquids into these parts. If foreign materials get into a seat belt buckle, the seat belt will not work properly. Do not wear seat belts over hard, sharp or fragile items in clothing, such as pens, keys, spectacles etc. Do not use any accessories on seat belts or modify in any way the seat belt system. Devices claiming to improve occupant comfort or repositioning the seat belt, can reduce the protection provided by the seat belt and increase the chance of serious injury in a collision. SAFETY Seat Belts with Pre — tensioner (If equipped) You can use pre-tensioner seat belts in the same manner as ordinary seat belts. The seat belt pre-tensioner system works in conjunction with the SUPPLEMENTARY RESTRAINTS SYSTEM (SRS-Airbags). In the event of a collision, as may be necessary, pre-tensioner tightens the seat belt

In the event of a collision, as may be necessary, pre-tensioner tightens the seat belt so that it fits the occupant’s body more snugly. When pre-tensioner activates, there could be some noise and release of smoke. This is normal and there are no health hazards or fire risk.  SAFETY In a collision, the pre-tensioner seat belt assembly mechanisms become hot during activation. Do not touch the pre-tensioner seat belt assemblies for several minutes after they have been activated. If the vehicle has been involved in a collision, get it inspected immediately at authorised TATA MOTORS SERVICE Center. Seat Belt with Load Limiter (If equipped) You can use the load limiter seat belts in the same manner as ordinary seat belts. The seat belt load limiter system works in conjunction with the SUPPLEMEN- TARY RESTRAINTS SYSTEM (SRS-Air- bags). In the event of a collision, as may be nec- essary, load limiter reduces the load on the rib cage region of the occupant. If the vehicle has been involved in

reduces the load on the rib cage region of the occupant. If the vehicle has been involved in a col- lision, get it inspected immediately at Au- thorised TATA MOTORS SERVICE Center. Use of seat belts for pregnant woman e Pregnant woman must wear a correctly positioned seat belt. It is safer for mother as well as unborn child. e Pregnant woman should wear the lap part of the seat belt across the pelvic bone (hips) and as snug across the hips as possible. Keep the seat belt low so that it does not come across the abdomen. That way the strong bones of the hips will take the force if there is a collision. |  Seat Belt Warning Lamp Df pf wT ws For Driver For Front Passenger The seat belt warning lamp reminds you to fasten the seat belt. If the driver does not fasten seat belt, seat belt reminder lamp will blink and a buzzer will sound for pre- defined duration until the driver’s seat belt is buckled. If front passenger seat is occupied by adult and does not fasten seat belt, seat belt

is buckled. If front passenger seat is occupied by adult and does not fasten seat belt, seat belt reminder lamp will blink and a buzzer will sound for pre- defined duration until the front passenger seat belt is buckled. If this system is also provided for other than Front row — seats, applicable above warnings will appear until seat belts are buckled. If front passenger seat is occupied by child, system may detect occupancy and warn with front passenger seat belt warning. It is not taken to mean child can occupy front passenger seat and use seat belt. Please refer CRS section for recommended seating position. NOTE Using unauthorized after-market seat cover may affect function of occupant sensor. TATA motors does not recommended any non- validated seat covers on seats. SAFETY  SAFETY Child Restraint System (CRS) TATA MOTORS strongly recommends the use of Child Restraint Systems (CRS) for all children up to age of 12 years and to be placed at recommended positions only. Children

for all children up to age of 12 years and to be placed at recommended positions only. Children travelling without recom- mended CRS and seated at other posi- tions may face serious injuries in case of a collision. CRS can be installed in the vehicle using seat belts and/or ISOFIX only (if equipped) or ISOFIX with Top Tether (if equipped). The harness system of CRS holds the child in place, and in a collision, acts to keep the child positioned in the seat and reduce the risk of injuries. All children below age of one year must always ride in a rear-facing infant CRS. Keep children above age of one year, in a forward-facing CRS with a harness un- til they reach the size or weight limit al- lowed by your CRS manufacturer. 8 Once your child outgrows the forward- facing CRS, your child is ready for a booster seat. Selection and Installation of CRS: Always select the CRS that complies with latest safety standards (AISO72 / ECE R44). The CRS are classified according to the child's size,

latest safety standards (AISO72 / ECE R44). The CRS are classified according to the child's size, height and weight. Select the appropriate CRS for your child. Ensure that the CRS is securely installed in the vehicle and subsequently child fits properly in it and wears harness of CRS. For installation, please refer CRS manufacturer’s instruction manual. NOTE The above images are for reference purpose only.  Recommended CRS Position as per the Vehicle Matrix The suitability of seat position for carriage of children and recom- mended category of CRS is shown in the table below as per the child group. X - Seat Position not suitable for children in this age group. U - Suitable for “universal” category restraints approved for use in this age group. Universal is a category in the AISO72 / ECE R44 norm. If a child is seated in the front seat it may cause serious injury or even death during any collision. SAFETY Front Rear Rear R fon Outboard Outboard ear Passenger Center LH RH 0 Up to 10 Up

collision. SAFETY Front Rear Rear R fon Outboard Outboard ear Passenger Center LH RH 0 Up to 10 Up to9 x U U x kg months Up to 13 Up to 24 O* kg months x U U x 910 18kg | Sronnsto x U U x iT 15 to 25kg ara to x U U x Approx. 6 to Il 22 to 36 kg 12 years xX U U x  SAFETY If your vehicle is equipped with a front passenger airbag (PAB) and does not have PAB deactivation switch, do not install a rear-facing CRS in the front passenger seat. If the PAB inflates, a child in a rear facing CRS could be seriously injured or killed. If you install a CRS in the rear seat, slide the front seat far enough forward so that the child’s feet do not touch the front seatback. This will help avoid injury to the child in the event of a collision. NOTE Children could be endangered in a collision if their CRS is not properly secured in the vehicle. Be sure to secure the child in the restraint system according to the manufacturer's instructions. 10 Do not use an infant carrier or a child safety seat that

to the manufacturer's instructions. 10 Do not use an infant carrier or a child safety seat that "hooks“ over a seatback, it will not provide adequate protection in a collision. After a collision, we recommend to get seat belts, seats, ISOFIX and top-tether anchorages (as may be applicable) investigated at TATA MOTORS Authorised service centre. NOTE A CRS in a closed vehicle can become very hot. To prevent burns, check the seating surface and buckles before placing your child in CRS. e Donotleave unattended children in your vehicle. e Do not modify CRS in any way. NOTE e Do not install a booster seat or a booster cushion with only the lap strap of the seat belt. e Do not install a booster seat or a booster cushion with a seat belt that is slack or twisted. e Do not put the safety seat belt under your child’s arm or behind its back. e Do not use pillows, books or towels to boost your child’s height. e Make sure that your children sit in an upright position. e Donotallow children to

child’s height. e Make sure that your children sit in an upright position. e Donotallow children to stand up or kneel on either the rear or the front seats. An unrestrained child could suffer serious or fatal injuries during a collision. e Do not leave any toys or other objects loose in the CRS or on the seat while the vehicle is in motion.  Each CRS should be used for one child only. When PAB deactivation switch (if provided) is turned ‘OFF’, make sure ‘PAB’ operational status lamp illuminates with ignition ‘ON’, indicating that the passenger airbag is NOT operational. If the airbag SRS warning indicator in the instrument cluster illuminates continuously, it means that there is malfunction in the system. Remove the CRS from front passenger seat and contact your TATA MOTORS authorised service center. SAFETY NOTE The above images are for reference purpose only. 11  SAFETY Supplementary Restraint System (SRS - Airbags) (if equipped) The airbag ‘SRS’ system comprises of the following

Restraint System (SRS - Airbags) (if equipped) The airbag ‘SRS’ system comprises of the following components depending upon the provided safety features in vehicle. e Seat belt Pre-tensioners e Seat belt with load limiters e Driver Airbag e Front Passenger Airbag e Side Airbags (if equipped) e Curtain Airbag (if equipped) e Airbag ‘SRS’ ECU (Electronic Control Unit) ¢ Collision Sensors e SRS wiring harness e SRS Warning lamp The System is active when ignition switch is in the “ON” position or the ignition mode is “ON”. Airbags are designed to inflate in severe collisions. In the event of a collision, the collision sensors will detect signals, and if the 12 Airbag ECU judges that the signals represent a severe collision, will trigger the airbags. The inflated Airbags provide a cushion to the occupants. The Airbag inflates and deflates so quickly that you may not even realize that it has activated. The Airbag will neither hinder your view nor make it hurdle to exit the vehicle. Airbag

activated. The Airbag will neither hinder your view nor make it hurdle to exit the vehicle. Airbag inflation is virtually instantaneous and occurs with considerable force, accompanied by loud noise and smoke, which is normal. The inflated airbag, together with seat belts, limit the movement of an occupant, thereby reducing the risk of injury. When an airbag inflates, you may see some smoke-like particles. The particles are a normal by-product of the process that generates the non-toxic gas used for airbag inflation. These airborne particles may irritate the skin, eyes, nose, or throat. If you have skin or eye irritation, rinse the area with water. For nose or throat irritation, move to fresh air. Also sometimes the smoke can cause breathing problems , in such cases get fresh air promptly. After inflation, airbag provides a gradual cushioning effect for the occupant thereafter deflates. It is not advisable to drive your vehicle after the airbags have been deployed. If you are involved

It is not advisable to drive your vehicle after the airbags have been deployed. If you are involved in another collision, the airbags will not be in place to protect you. NOTE The above images are for reference purpose only.  Side airbags (if equipped), are mounted SAFETY Curtain NOTE e Open your windows and doors as soon as possible after collision to reduce prolonged exposure to the smoke and powder released by the inflating airbag. e Do not touch the airbag container’s internal components immediately after an Airbag has inflated. The parts that come into contact with an inflating Airbag may be very hot. e Always wash exposed skin areas thoroughly with lukewarm water and mild soap. The driver airbag is mounted in the centre of the steering wheel. The front passenger airbag is located inside the dashboard in front of the passenger seat. The vehicle fitted with the airbags have suitable indications on steering wheel and on dash board. The word ‘AIRBAG’ is embossed on the airbag

indications on steering wheel and on dash board. The word ‘AIRBAG’ is embossed on the airbag covers. in front row seats for outboard occupants only. Now Sh NOTE The above image is for reference purpose only. airbags (if equipped), are mounted above the doors along the roof on both sides. NOTE The above image is for reference purpose only. 13  SAFETY 14 Even in vehicles with Airbags, you and your passengers must always wear the seat belts provided. In order to minimize the risk and severity of injury in the event of a collision. ALWAYS use seat belts and CRS - during every trip and at all times. Even with airbags, you can be seriously injured or killed ina collision if you are not wearing seat belt properly or not wearing seat belt when airbag inflates. You and your passengers should never sit or lean unnecessarily close to the Airbags. Move your seat as far back as possible from front Airbags, while still maintaining control of the vehicle. All occupants should sit upright with the

Airbags, while still maintaining control of the vehicle. All occupants should sit upright with the seatback in an upright position, centred on the seat cushion with their seat belt on, legs comfortably extended and their feet on the floor until the vehicle is parked and the engine is turned off. If an occupant is out of position during collision, the rapidly deploying Airbag may forcefully contact the occupant causing serious or fatal injuries. Do not allow the front passenger to place their feet or legs on the dashboard. Not Recommended Seating Position | NOTE The above images are for reference purpose only.  SAFETY Not Recommended Seating osition  SAFETY 16 Never place your arm over the airbag as a deploying airbag can result in serious arm fractures or other injuries. Do not allow the passengers to lean their heads or bodies onto doors or place objects between the doors and passengers when they are seated on _ seats equipped with side and/or curtain Airbags. Do not place or stick

when they are seated on _ seats equipped with side and/or curtain Airbags. Do not place or stick any item/s in the vehicle, except at designated locations (such as utility bins, cup/bottle holders, boot space etc). Loose items may act as a projectile during a collision and cause severe to fatal injuries. Please be aware that any unsecured item in your vehicle, such as your pet, unsecured CRS or a laptop, can become a potential hazard in the event of a collision or sudden stop, causing injuries to occupants in the vehicle. Coat hooks (if provided), must be used only for that purpose. Never hang other items on to those hooks. This could affect deployment of the Airbags, and may lead to severe to fatal injuries. ALWAYS contact your TATA MOTORS authorised _ service centre if the vehicle is damaged, even if airbag has not inflated. ALWAYS contact your TATA MOTORS authorised _ service centre if any part of an airbag module cover shows sign of cracking or damage. If your SRS malfunctions,

if any part of an airbag module cover shows sign of cracking or damage. If your SRS malfunctions, the Airbag may not inflate properly during a col- lision thereby increasing risk of seri- ous injury or death. If any of the fol- lowing conditions occur, your SRS is malfunctioning: The SRS warning lamp does not turn ‘ON’ when the ignition switch is placed in the ‘ON’ position for few seconds. The SRS warning lamp stays ‘ON’ after illuminating The SRS warning lamp comes “ON’/stays ‘ON’ while the vehicle is in motion. The SRS warning lamp blinks when the engine is running. We recommend the customer to im- mediately visit TATA MOTORS author- ised service centre and get the SRS system inspected if any of the above conditions occur.  performance of system and may SAFETY It is not taken to mean child can occupy Never make any modifications to your vehicle. The modifications carried out, but not limited to the vehicle frame, bumpers, front fenders, ride height, suspension, seat belts, interior

limited to the vehicle frame, bumpers, front fenders, ride height, suspension, seat belts, interior trims, steering wheel (especially holders), are not acceptable. This will affect the intended performance of SRS system. Fitment of bull bars, seat covers on seats with airbags etc, is strictly prohibited, unless authorised by TATA MOTORS. This will affect the intended performance of SRS system. If you need to make any modifications to accommodate any disability you may have, please contact your Authorized TATA MOTORS Dealer _ for necessary guidance. Do not tamper with SRS in any way. This will lead to unexpected cause serious injury or death. Airbag Warning Sticker on Front Passenger Sun Visor The Airbag Warning Symbol on sun visor reminds extreme hazards associate with the use of rearward-facing child re- straint on front passenger seat during airbag deployment. front passenger seat and use seat belt. Please refer CRS section for recom- mended seating position for children. Never use

use seat belt. Please refer CRS section for recom- mended seating position for children. Never use a rearward facing child restraint on a seat protected by an active Airbag in front of it, Death or serious injury to the child can oc- cur. 17  SAFETY Airbag Deployment Conditions When front airbags (if equipped) should not deploy? Minor frontal collision: Seat belt (if worn) offers adequate occupant protec- tion in low severity collisions. The air- bags are triggered only when there is a collision severe enough to trigger the air- bags. Deployment of frontal airbags is not beneficial in low severity collisions. Side collision: During a side collision, occupants tend to move sideways. Therefore, deploying frontal airbags in such situations will not benefit the occu- pants. Side airbags and side curtain air- bags (if equipped) are specifically de- signed to reduce the injuries that can oc- cur in side collision. Rear collision: During a rear collision, occupants tend to move (rearwards)

cur in side collision. Rear collision: During a rear collision, occupants tend to move (rearwards) away from frontal airbags. Therefore, de- ploying frontal airbags in such situations 18 will not protect the occupant. Head re- straints and seat belts provide occupant protection during a rear collision. Rollovers collision: During a rollover collision, unbelted occupants may float inside the passenger compartment. This will increase the risk of injuries and may prove to be fatal. Wearing seat belts pro- vide highly effective occupant protection during rollover collision. Front airbags, are not designed to deploy in a rollover as frontal airbags cannot offer any pro- tection in rollover collision. When front = airbags/side _air- bags/side curtain airbags (if equipped) deploy with minor or no visible vehicle damage? The airbags are triggered only when there is a collision severe enough to trig- ger the airbags. The extent of vehicle damage is not always the correct indica- tor for airbag

ger the airbags. The extent of vehicle damage is not always the correct indica- tor for airbag deployment. In some ex- treme/rare conditions; of rough road driving, running into a curb or hitting other fixed objects; the airbags may de- ploy depending upon the severity of col- lision. In some of these conditions, dam- age to the vehicle may be minor or not be readily visible. When front = airbags/side _air- bags/side curtain airbags (if equipped) may not deploy, even with exterior visible vehicle dam- age? The airbags are triggered only when there is a collision severe enough to trig- ger the airbags. The amount of visible ve- hicle damage is not always the correct indicator for airbag deployment. Some collisions can result in visible damage but with no airbag deployment, because the airbags would not have been needed or would not have provided protection even if they had deployed. Seat belts, if worn, offer adequate occupant protec- tion in such cases.  Child Lock (if equipped) Both

belts, if worn, offer adequate occupant protec- tion in such cases.  Child Lock (if equipped) Both the rear doors of the vehicle are provided with a child proof lock. Push the lock lever located on vertical face of the door downward before closing the door. The door which has been closed by acti- vating the child lock cannot be opened from inside, it can be opened only from the outside. NOTE Lift the lock lever upward to de- activate the childproof lock when not required. Child safety lever to be used for safety of child for preventing them to open rear door while seating in passenger seat to avoid accident while vehicle is running. SAFETY 19  SAFETY Anti-Theft Device-Immobilizer/ PEPS NOTE (If equipped) Use only Flip key, the other should be Immobilizer system is designed to pre- kept in a safe location. Note down vent vehicle theft by electronically disa- “key Tag no.” information (and keep it bling the engine ignition system. The en- safe) which is required while getting gine can

keep it bling the engine ignition system. The en- safe) which is required while getting gine can be started only with vehicle’s new/spare keys. Re-member that it is original Immobilizer ignition key which not possible to prepare new/spare has an electronic identification pro- keys without the “key Tag number.” grammed code. Take pre-caution about Flip key, as without Flip key vehicle cannot be started. Immobilizer Vehicle Cond Lamp Status Vehicle State Meaning / Function of the state Ignition OFF Blinking Locked Vehicle Immobilized and awaiting electronic key Ignition ON OFF Unlocked Normal condition and ready to start the vehicle - Problem with key (Wrong key used to start vehicle) Ignition ON ON Locked - Problem with Immobilizer system. Contact a TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre Ignition ON Blinking Unlocked - Contact a TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre immediately 20  Anti-lock Braking System (ABS) (If equipped) ABS regulates brake pres- sure in such a way that the (2)

Braking System (ABS) (If equipped) ABS regulates brake pres- sure in such a way that the (2) wheels do not lock when you brake. This allows you to continue steering the vehicle when braking. The ABS warning lamp in the instrument cluster lights up when the ignition is switched on. It goes off after 2-3 sec- onds if system is healthy. If ABS is faulty, the wheels could lock when braking. The steer abil- ity and braking characteristics may be severely impaired. There is an increased danger of skid- ding and accidents. Drive on carefully. Have ABS checked immediately at the TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Cen- tre as soon as possible. While Braking In an emergency situation take your foot off the accelerator and press the brake pedal fully. This allows the ABS to regulate braking for you and have steering control along with maximum possible braking. When ABS is active driver will feel brake pedal pulsating and very low motor (ABS) activation noise from en- gine compartment which is normal

pedal pulsating and very low motor (ABS) activation noise from en- gine compartment which is normal during ABS braking. On certain surfaces, such as gravel or firm ground covered by snow, the standard ABS system may have the effect of increasing the stopping distance, but ABS will still offer the advantage of helping you to maintain direc- tional control of vehicle. However, remember that ABS will not compensate for bad road or weather conditions or poor driver SAFETY judgment. Drive within safety mar- gin taking into consideration pre- vailing weather and traffic condi- tions. 21  SAFETY Electronic brake force distribution (EBD) EBD monitors and controls the brake pressure on the '(@)) rear wheels to improve driv- ing stability while braking. EBD provides optimal braking pressure distribution between front and rear wheels to optimize braking distance and to ensure vehicle stability by means of lowering braking pressure at rear wheels. e If EBD is malfunctioning, the rear wheels can

means of lowering braking pressure at rear wheels. e If EBD is malfunctioning, the rear wheels can lock, e.g. under full braking. This increases the risk of skidding and an accident. e You should therefore adapt your driving style to the different han- dling characteristics. Have the brake system checked immedi- ately at a TATA MOTORS Author- ized Service Centre as soon as possible. 22 Additional safety features Cornering Stability Control (CSC) Corner stability Control supports / stabi- lizes vehicle during partial braking on curves by reducing pressure at required inner wheel of the vehicle. This helps to reduce probability of vehi- cle over steering during cornering. OFF Road ABS Based on wheel speed information off road ABS helps to avoid wheel lock on uneven surfaces like loose gravel, pot holes by reducing the stopping distance compared to standard ABS. Electronic Traction Control (ETC) The Electronic Traction Control system function (ETC) is designed as a slip con- trol system

(ETC) The Electronic Traction Control system function (ETC) is designed as a slip con- trol system to prevent the driven wheels of a vehicle from excessive wheel slip. Roll over Mitigation (ROM) The main feature of the Roll over Mitiga- tion function is the detection of a rollover critical situation and to prevent the vehi- cle rollover. This is done by active brake interventions on selected wheels, thereby reducing the forces that cause a roll-over situation. Brake Disc Wiping (BDW) Water on the brake disc leads to a delay in brake response time. The purpose of the function Brake Disc wiping is to re- move moisture when driving in wet con- ditions automatically. To get quick re- sponse form Brake and better decelera- tion. Electronic Brake Pre-fill (EBP) The Electronic Brake Prefill (EBP) func- tion reduces the air gap of the brake pad and the brake disc. The function is trig- gered after a sudden release of the ac- celerator pedal due to an unexpected emergency brake situation. By

a sudden release of the ac- celerator pedal due to an unexpected emergency brake situation. By actively pre-filling the brake-system the brake re- sponse time is reduced and results in a shorter stopping distance.  Hydraulic Brake Assist (HBA) In a dangerous emergency situation, most drivers don't use the full available performance of the brake system, be- cause they brake too soft. The HBA func- tion detects the critical situation and builds up additional brake pressure to reduce the braking distance. Hydraulic Fading compensation (HFC) In dangerous fading situations most driv- ers operate the brake pedal with a small or regular braking force and they never reach to the maximum possible vehicle deceleration. The HFC function improve the stopping distance by eliminating re- quired pressure build-up lag by the driver. Dynamic Wheel Torque by Brake (DWT-B) The main goal of the function is to im- prove the agility of a vehicle and to ena- ble a more direct steering. This is mainly

is to im- prove the agility of a vehicle and to ena- ble a more direct steering. This is mainly achieved by braking interventions at the inner wheels during turning. DWT-B re- duces understeer tendency of the car and a higher curve speed can be achieved. Engine Drag Torque Control (EDTC) On slippery road conditions during in- gear Braking or Shift down of gear or sudden throttle release on a curve road. This causes high Engine drag on the driven wheel resulting into brake slip sit- uations without any brake application. This makes vehicle highly under steera- ble. EDTC controls such brake slip on the driven wheels by increasing the engine torque to makes the vehicle stable and steerable. Hill Hold control (HHC) Hill Hold Control is a comfort function. The main intend is to prevent the vehicle from rolling backwards while driving off up-hill on an inclined surface. SAFETY 23  24  OPENING AND CLOSING Keys (as available) SN Name Remote key Description 1. Unlocking all doors 2. Approach

AND CLOSING Keys (as available) SN Name Remote key Description 1. Unlocking all doors 2. Approach light/Tail gate opening 1. Flip key with remote 3. Locking all doors 4 . Folding key blade in/out 2. Mechanical key 1. Locking all doors 2. Unlocking all doors 1. Locking all doors 3. Smart Key (PEPS) Approach light Tail gate opening RY N Unlocking all doors 25  OPENING AND CLOSING Keys A key is an electronic access and author- ization system which is provided as a standard feature on your vehicle. Unlocking Principle The transponder which is built into the ignition key carries a unique identifica- tion code. The vehicle unlocks when the code on the key matches with the code on the Engine Management System (EMS). In case of PEPS variant, Immobi- lizer function is provided by PEPS. Engine Starting When the key is inserted and the ignition is switched ‘ON’, all codes are communi- cated within key, Immobilizer and EMS. The engine will start only if all the codes match. Loss of Keys If one of

key, Immobilizer and EMS. The engine will start only if all the codes match. Loss of Keys If one of the key is lost, contact your nearest TATA MOTORS authorised dealer immediately. 26 Do not turn ‘ON’ ignition switch by using key with any type of metal wound around its grip or in contact with it. This may be de- tected as abnormal condition by immobilizer and prevent engine from starting. Do not leave the key in areas of high temperature. The tran- sponder in it will behave abnor- mally when reused. Do not try to start the vehicle when the Immobilizer indi- [EY cator lamp on the instrument cluster is glowing. In this condi- tion the vehicle will not start and the vehicle’s battery will also be drained due to frequent crank- ing. 1. Unlocking all doors 2. Approach Light/Tail gate unlatch 3. Locking all doors 4. Folding key blade IN/OUT 1. Unlocking all Doors Pressing the unlock button (1) of remote will unlock all the Doors. One flash is coming on side indicators.  2. Approach Light

(1) of remote will unlock all the Doors. One flash is coming on side indicators.  2. Approach Light Press approach light button (2) once, low beam and positon lamp will turn ‘ON’. This feature helps to find and reach the parked vehicle or to reach home in dark/ cloudy condition after parking. Red LED will be flash on the remote. To switch ‘OFF’ the approach lights, press and re- lease the same button or it automatically turns ‘OFF’ after certain time. Tail Gate Unlatch To unlatch the Tail gate, long press the approach light button (2) on remote for more than 2 sec. NOTE Tail gate once unlatched will not get lock automatically with doors. It will locked by slamming. 3. Locking all Doors Pressing the Lock button (3) once. Re- mote locks all the doors of the vehicle. 4. Folding Key Blade IN / OUT Press button (4) to flip out the key blade. For folding, press the button (4) and fold the key blade inside. NOTE Do not fold the key blade without pressing the button. Also, it should not be

blade inside. NOTE Do not fold the key blade without pressing the button. Also, it should not be forced in any direction apart from folding direction to avoid damage to flip mechanism. OPENING AND CLOSING Flip Key Features Vehicle Search n vehicle, locked condition if lock button on remote key is pressed the turn indica- tors of vehicle flashes for 4 times. Automatic Activation of Immobilizer If key is removed from ignition switch, the engine will be immobilized automat- ically even if you forget to lock the vehi- cle. For few variant, Ignition off is required to immobilize the vehicle. Auto Locking / Unlocking of Doors / Auto Relock e Vehicle doors are automatically locked when all doors are closed and the vehicle speed crosses 10 kmph. e When key is taken out all the doors get automatically unlocked. e For few variant, when ignition is turned off all the doors get automati- cally unlocked. 27  OPENING AND CLOSING Also, when unlocked with remote key and if no door is opened within 30

27  OPENING AND CLOSING Also, when unlocked with remote key and if no door is opened within 30 sec- onds, vehicle doors get automatically locked. Anti-grab / Anti-scan Coding The remote control set of this security system is protected against the use of devices called ‘scanners’ and ‘grabbers’ which can record and reproduce some types of remote codes. NOTE In case any button of the key is ac- cidentally pressed for more than 20 seconds, the remote stops func- tioning till the time the button is pressed. The LED on the Remote also stops glowing. The function of the remote gets reinstated imme- diately when the user stops press- ing the push button of remote. 28 Smart Key (PEPS) Keep the smart key with user to perform the passive access. It is used for locking, unlocking and starting the vehicle. 1. Locking all doors 2. Approach Light 3. Tail gate opening 4 . Unlocking all doors 1. Locking all Door Pressing the Lock button (1) once. Re- mote locks all the doors of the vehicle. Please

all Door Pressing the Lock button (1) once. Re- mote locks all the doors of the vehicle. Please refer section starting and driving for more information. 2. Approach Light Press approach light button (2) once, low beam and position lamp will turn ‘ON’. This feature helps to find and reach the parked vehicle or to reach home in dark/ cloudy condition. To switch ‘OFF’ the ap- proach lights, press and release the same button or it automatically turns ‘OFF’ after certain time. 3. Tail Gate Opening To open the Tail gate press the button (3) once on the smart key, Tail gate will un- latch. Please refer section starting and driving for more information. 4. Unlocking all Doors Pressing the unlock button (4) once. Re- mote will unlock all the Doors. Please re- fer section starting and driving for more information.  NOTE If smart key battery is low/drained or vehicle battery is low/drained, user can unlock and enter into ve- hicle by using Emergency key blade. Provision is given on driver door

can unlock and enter into ve- hicle by using Emergency key blade. Provision is given on driver door handle only. Emergency Key blade In / Out Slide the knob (1) to unlatch the key. Pul the key blade (2) out. OPENING AND CLOSING Unlocking Door with Emergency ¢ Outer cover of door handle will be un- Key lock first. * Slot is provided below driver door °* Remove the cover to access the door handle. lock slot. e Insert the key blade in slot and press. Insert the key blade in slot and turn clockwise to unlock the door. 29  OPENING AND CLOSING Smart Key Features Force Panic ON operation When vehicle is in OFF condition, if we press lock button and unlock button sim- ultaneously, Force panic operation gets activated. In this case, turn indicators of vehicle start flashing and horn will blow automatically. Force Panic OFF operation By pressing any button of smart key, Force panic operation gets deactivated Vehicle Search In vehicle locked condition, if lock button on smart key is pressed, the

deactivated Vehicle Search In vehicle locked condition, if lock button on smart key is pressed, the turn indica- tors of vehicle flashes 4 times. Automatic Activation of Immobilizer If smart key is not found within the pas- senger compartment, engine will be im- mobilized and vehicle cannot start. 30 Auto Locking / Unlocking of Doors / auto Relock In PEPS variants, door will get unlocked when ignition is OFF by pressing Start Stop switch. Anti-grab / Anti-scan Coding The remote control set of this security system is protected against the use of devices called ‘scanners’ and ‘grabbers’ which can record and reproduce some types of remote codes. Important e Don’t operate Unlock button of re- mote in the vicinity of your vehicle, as it could lead to an unintentional un- locking your vehicle. e For battery, replacement procedure refer ‘MAINTENANCE’ section. e« Do not remove the battery connec- tion of the vehicle while the vehicle has been locked by remote. Smart Key Precautions 1. If

tion of the vehicle while the vehicle has been locked by remote. Smart Key Precautions 1. If smart key is close to radio transmit- ter such as radio station or an airport which can interfere with normal oper- ation of the transmitter. 2. If smart key is near a mobile two way radio system or a cellular phone, then it will not work properly. 3. If another vehicle’s smart key is be- ing operated close to your vehicle, signal will fluctuate. Keep smart key away from electro- magnetic materials that blocks electromagnetic waves to the key surface.  Two Smart Keys Scenarios SN Scenarios One smart key is inside the vehicle (away from Immobi- lizer antenna) and other smart key is outside the vehi- cle within authentication range. Precondition Vehicle is in OFF mode and all door closed Action Lock the vehicle with out- side smart key (passive lock / RKE lock) and keep outside smart key away from authentication range. OPENING AND CLOSING PS behavior When user tries to start the vehicle with

authentication range. OPENING AND CLOSING PS behavior When user tries to start the vehicle with inside smart key, vehicle doesn’t start. One smart key is inside the vehicle (near Immobilizer an- tenna) and other smart key is outside the vehicle within au- thentication range. Vehicle is in OFF mode and all door closed. Lock the vehicle with out- side smart key and keep outside smart key away from authentication range. When user tries to start the vehicle with inside smart key, vehicle would start with back up start. User presses start/stop button twice with the interval of 2.5 sec between two presses within 5 seconds. Note: The vehicle doesn't start if inside smart key is kept away from Immobi- lizer antenna until vehicle is unlocked by outside smart key via outside door handle OR RKE unlock command from inside/outside smart key is received. 31  OPENING AND CLOSING Scenarios Action Lock the vehicle with out- One smart key is inside the vehicle (near . _ . venicle win Ou When user tries

vehicle with out- One smart key is inside the vehicle (near . _ . venicle win Ou When user tries to unlock/lock the ve- ve Vehicle is in | side smart key and keep . oe Immobilizer antenna) and other smart . hicle ((RKE lock / unlock) with inside 3 . . . ae OFF mode and | outside smart key away key is outside the vehicle within authen- oo. smart key, RKE lock/ unlock opera- on all door closed. | from authentication | .. tication range. tion takes place normally. Tange. Lock the vehicle with out- One smart key is inside the vehicle . o, . venicle wi u When user tries to start the vehicle oe Vehicle is in | side smart key (passive ae . , (away from Immobilizer antenna) and with inside smart key, vehicle doesn’t 4 . . . OFF mode and | lock/ RKE lock) and then . other smart key is outside the vehicle . . start. However, RKE_ operations ae an all door closed unlock the vehicle with within authentication range. . (lock/unlock) take place normally. mechanical key. When user tries to unlock

range. . (lock/unlock) take place normally. mechanical key. When user tries to unlock the vehicle ou . . | passively with outside One smart key is inside the vehicle | Vehicle is in Smart key (from drive), vehicle (away from Immobilizer antenna) and | ACC/IGN mode | Lock the vehicle with in- F y _ 5 . . . doesn’t get unlocked in ACC/IGN other smart key is outside the vehicle | and all door | ternal knob. . ae en mode. Also, when user tries to unlock within authentication range. closed. . . . the Tail gate passively, Tail gate doesn’t get unlocked. Vehicle is in | Keep the outside smart One smart key is inside the vehicle | ACC/IGN key within driver door vi- 6 (away from Immobilizer antenna) and | mode, all door | cinity and try to lock ve- | Vehicle doesn’t get locked in ACC / other. Smart key is outside the vehicle | closed, and ve- | hicle with driver door | IGN mode. within authentication range. hicle is in un- | handle switch from driver lock state. side. 32  Doors Option 1 Door

range. hicle is in un- | handle switch from driver lock state. side. 32  Doors Option 1 Door Locking / Unlocking with Key Driver / front passenger doors can be locked or unlocked from outside using the key blade. Insert the key and turn it clockwise to lock and anticlockwise to unlock the door. Option 2 Door Locking / Unlocking using Door Handle Switch (DHS) To lock/unlock all the doors without op- erating smart key button/ key blade. Press the door handle switch (DHS) pro- vided on the driver door to lock/unlock all the four doors except tailgate. OPENING AND CLOSING Horn Honking when Door Locking using Door Handle Switch (DHS) If vehicle is in unlock condition and smart key is not available, (i.e. Smart Key is present away from authentication range) and if you tries to lock the vehicle through door handle switch then vehicle horn honking gets activated for 9 sec. If vehicle is in unlock condition and Smart key is present inside the vehicle. If you tries to press the door handle

unlock condition and Smart key is present inside the vehicle. If you tries to press the door handle switch then vehicle horn honking gets activated for 9 sec. NOTE e Authentication range for smart key shall be 1 to 1.5 meter from outside the respective door or Tail gate. e Passive entry only works during ignition off. 33,  OPENING AND CLOSING Locking without a Key from Inside Unlocking the Doors from Inside Windows Power Windows (if available) All the doors can also be locked from in- 1. Door opening knob side by pressing knob on driver door and independently on other doors respec. 2 D00r opening Lever 1. Front Window Winding Switch (Right) tively. All doors can be opened from inside. To 2. Front Window Winding Switch (Left) open, pull the door opening knob (1) and 3. Rear Window Winding Switch (Right) then opening lever (2). 4. Rear Window Winding Switch (Left) There is a single pull override fea- Window glasses on all four doors can be ture on driver door. All door can be operated

override fea- Window glasses on all four doors can be ture on driver door. All door can be operated by switches provided on the unlocked by inner handle without main control panel located on the operating lock knob of inner han- driver’s arm rest. They work only when dle. the key is in the ‘IGN ON’ position. 34  NOTE Power windows can be operated for 30 sec. in ‘IGN OFF’ and ‘KEY OUT’ position, provided doors are not open. Express Down (if available) Window glasses can be opened by a sin- gle long press of the switch. Express down feature is provided for driver door only. Anti-pinch Function (if available) The Anti-pinch module is provided. It will stop window upward movement if any obstruction or resistance detected. Thus, it gives full and reliable protection or hand, neck and any obstacles as well. Anti-pinch function is provided for driver door only. Individual Switches ndividual window winding switches ave been provided for front passenger and rear passengers. OPENING AND CLOSING

winding switches ave been provided for front passenger and rear passengers. OPENING AND CLOSING 5 & Glasses are wound up by pulling the switch and are lowered by pressing. While raising the glass, take care to avoid fingers/hands getting trapped between glass and the door frame. 35  OPENING AND CLOSING Inhibit Switch (if available) Inhibit Switch ON When — switch is pressed, red light turns ‘OFF’. The indi- vidual switches pro- vided on rear and front passenger door cannot be oper- ated. Still it can be operated from the switches on driver's arm rest. 36 Inhibit Switch OFF When — switch is pressed, red light turns ‘ON’. The indi- vidual switches pro- vided on rear and front passenger door can be operated. It can also be operated from the switches on driver's arm rest. e If children operate the windows hey could be get trapped, partic- ularly if they are left unsuper- vised. There is a risk of injury. e Activate the window inhibit fea- ure when children are travelling. While leaving

risk of injury. e Activate the window inhibit fea- ure when children are travelling. While leaving the vehicle, always take the key with you and lock he vehicle. Never leave children unsupervised in the vehicle. Bonnet Opening 1. Ensure that the vehicle is in neutra gear with the parking brake applied. 2. Pull the bonnet release lever. The bonnet will pop up slightly. 3. Raise the bonnet slightly and with your finger lift (up) the secondary lock lever located under the bonnet center.  OPENING AND CLOSING Engine Bonnet Stay rod Closing 1. To close the bonnet, hold the bonnet by one hand, disengage the stay rod and clamp it back properly. 2. Lower the bonnet close to the bumper, then let it drop down. WARNING Ensure that the bonnet is properly locked before driving or it can fly up unexpectedly during driving. NOTE Make sure that the wiper arms are not raised before you lift up the WARNING bonnet to avoid damaging the wiper arms and the bonnet. e The stay rod can be hot enough to burn

bonnet to avoid damaging the wiper arms and the bonnet. e The stay rod can be hot enough to burn your finger right after 4. Lift the bonnet up. Pull the bonnet driving. To avoid this, use rubber stay rod from its clip and insert the packing given on stay rod. free end into the slot provided on e Touch the rod after it becomes frame. cool enough. e Insert the stay rod into the hole securely. If the rod drops off, your body may be caught below the bonnet. 37  OPENING AND CLOSING Tail Gate Opening (as available) Option II Option Ill NOTE Some variants may have multiple options. Option | When user press the Tail gate buttonon jf vehicle is locked and tail gate is remote, Tail gate gets unlatched. closed. Tail gate switch is pressed with valid smart key in the authentication NOTE range, Tail gate gets unlatched. Press the tail gate button on smart . . . key and press the tail gate door On Closing the tail gate door, Tail gates Remote operated Tail gate unlatching handle switch within 30

Closing the tail gate door, Tail gates Remote operated Tail gate unlatching handle switch within 30 seconds to 8 : can be done through long press (2 sec) open it. approach light button on remote key. 38  OPENING AND CLOSING NOTE Option IV 4. And access the tailgate-opening lever from inside. e During closing Tail gate if doors Emergency Tailgate Opening are in locked condition and valid _ smart key is inside the trunk, then Tail gate can be unlocked by pressing tailgate switch. e For Tail gate unlatch remote op- eration, vehicle shall be in OFF mode. e Tail gate once unlatch it will not get locked automatically with other doors. e If doors are in unlocked condi- tion, Tail gate can be unlocked 5. Turn the lever clockwise to unlatch and open the tailgate. NOTE This can be used in emergency when you are inside the vehicle. via Tail gate handle switch inde- In emergency situation like key or vehi- pendent of smart key. cle battery is discharged or electrical e Avoid keeping smart key

or vehi- pendent of smart key. cle battery is discharged or electrical e Avoid keeping smart key inside malfunctioning, you can unlock the tail- the boot space area while clos- gate from inside as per procedure given ing Tail gate. below: 1. Open driver door using mechanical WARNING key. Tail gate can’t be locked using me- chanical key/ flip key/ smart key. It can be locked by slamming it. 2. Open the rear door. Lad Fold the rear seat. 39  OPENING AND CLOSING Fuel Lid 1. To open the fuel flap, gently press on fuel flap. Make sure the smart key should be in authentication range and the vehicle is in unlock condi- tion. NOTE 2. 40 For mechanical/flip key (without smart key), to open the fuel flap. Make sure that vehicle is in unlock condition. Then gently press the fuel flap. Open the fuel flap by gently pressing flap. 3. 4. WARNING To open the fuel cap by turning it in counter clockwise for fuel filling. For closing, close the fuel cap and gently push the fuel flap till it gets locked.

fuel filling. For closing, close the fuel cap and gently push the fuel flap till it gets locked. Fuel vapour is extremely hazard- ous. Always switch ‘OFF’ the en- gine before refueling and never refill near sparks or open flames. Do not use cell phone while refu- eling. e Do not continue adding fuel after the automatic shut ‘OFF’ func- tion is operated if it is equipped on the fuel station. Overfilling the fuel tank could damage the fuel system. NOTE e Remove the fuel filler cap slowly, and wait for any hissing to stop. The fuel may be under pressure and may spray out. e When smart key is inside the car, fuel flap can be open by pressing the flap. If fuel cap needs replacement, ensure that it is replaced by a genuine cap at the TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre only.  Power Sunroof (if available) } A ll A Sunroof will make the driving expe- rience more enjoyable by bringing light and sunshine into the vehicle. It provides a real open air feeling along with pure driving fun. With

sunshine into the vehicle. It provides a real open air feeling along with pure driving fun. With fresh air, your driving experience automati- cally becomes significantly more re- laxed. | ae | ae A sunroof allows air to flow evenly from above the driver, which is much quieter and less intrusive than wind blowing through a side window. Location of Controls and their functions i) @ @ = ay il ea Cae | | Ga | | Ga S a cs Power Sunroof Switches Sunroof Open Sunroof Close Tilt Up Tilt Down Sunshade Open Sunshade Close Q2aPRONnN > OPENING AND CLOSING To operate the sliding sunroof and Rollo shade. Push the switch as shown in above fig. after every operation switch goes to Home position automatically. WARNING You must switch on the ignition to operate the power sunroof. After switching off the ignition, You can still open or close the power sun- roof for 3 minutes as long as the driver or front passenger door has not been opened. 41  OPENING AND CLOSING 1. Sunshade Open Position ) > ' Push

passenger door has not been opened. 41  OPENING AND CLOSING 1. Sunshade Open Position ) > ' Push the switch (5) to open the Sun- shade. Express (one touch) open to open Sun- shade completely. 42 Manual (long press) open and stop at de- sired position. 2. Sunshade Close Position Push the switch (6) to close the Sun- shade. Express (one touch) close to close Sun- shade completely. Manual (long press) Close and stop at desired position.  OPENING AND CLOSING 3. Sunroof Open Position NOTE 5. Sunroof Tilt Open/Close Posi- tion During sliding sunroof Express (one touch) open operation, Sunshade will also open in synchronization with sliding sunroof (Express Complete Open Feature). 4. Sunroof Close Position Push the switch (4) for Sunroof Tilt Close. Express (one touch) Tilt Open / Close sunroof completely. Manual (long press) Tilt Open / Close and stop at desired position. Push the switch (1) to open the Sunroof. Express (one touch) open to open Sun- Push the switch (2) to close the Sunroof.

open the Sunroof. Express (one touch) open to open Sun- Push the switch (2) to close the Sunroof. roof completely. Express (one touch) close to close sun- Manual (long press) open and stopatde- roof completely. sired position. Manual (long press) close and stop at desired position. 43  OPENING AND CLOSING Auto Sunroof Close Sliding Sunroof will automatically close under following conditions: e Rain detection- As soon as rain de- tected & Wiper speed is slow/high based on Rain, the Sunroof will close. e Ignition off and driver came out of the vehicle by carrying the Remote key and driver locking the vehicle through remotely or through driver door. NOTE If the power sunroof malfunctions, pinch protection may not function properly. Visit an authorized TATA Motors dealer or an authorized TATA Motors Service Facility for as- sistance. 44 e Without pinch protection, the power sunroof will close with enough force to cause serious personal injury. e Always be careful when closing the power

with enough force to cause serious personal injury. e Always be careful when closing the power sunroof. e Pinch protection cannot prevent fingers or other parts of the body from being pressed against the edge of the roof; may result in in- juries. Emergency Close Feature If Express (One Touch) / Manual (long press) Sunroof and Sunshade close function did not work due to: e Consecutive several attempts to Open / close Sunroof and Sun- shade. e Excessive Ice / Dirt accumulation on the Sunroof Glass / guiderails. Follow the emergency close com- mand as below: Emergency close feature can be used, if Sliding sunroof or Sunshade consecu- tive reversal movement observed 3 times within 10 sec then follow the steps given below: 1. On the 4 attempt continuously press the sunroof close switch - posi- tion (2) or Sunshade close switch - position (6) until it closes completely to ensure occupant privacy, safety & theft prevention from Sunroof open window. This is Emergency Close Feature. Never

privacy, safety & theft prevention from Sunroof open window. This is Emergency Close Feature. Never keep your hands or head in the Sunroof window while perform- ing this operation it may cause se- vere injury, since Anti-pinch func- tion will not work at this 4 at- tempt.  2. Once the sunroof or Sunshade is completely closed, release the switch. 3. Alternatively, User may wait for min. 30 secs before operating Sunroof and Sunshade, then Sunroof can be operated with Normal Functions. NOTE If the Sunroof doesn’t operate as above, Visit an authorized TATA Motors dealer or an authorized TATA Motors Service Facility for as- sistance. Initializing the power sunroof Condition for initializing the sunroof If the vehicle battery is disconnected and reconnected during Sunroof / Sunshade movement or while replacing the dead fuse, the sunroof/ Sunshade must be in- itialized. Otherwise Express (one touch) function (open/close/tilt) and pinch protection function will be deactivated. Initializing

touch) function (open/close/tilt) and pinch protection function will be deactivated. Initializing command procedure: To initialize the sliding sunroof and Sun- shade, use the following procedure: 1. Turn ON the ignition. 2. Close the sunroof fully by pressing ‘sunroof close switch’ and keep the switch pressed for 1-2 seconds after the roof is fully closed, till clicking sound comes from Sunroof. 3. Close the Sunshade fully by pressing ‘Sunshade close switch’ and keep the switch pressed for 1-2 seconds after the Sunshade is fully closed, till OPENING AND CLOSING clicking sound comes from Sun- shade. 4. The Initializing command is com- plete, Check if the Express open/close features are working. NOTE If the initializing procedure is not completely performed, then it has to be run again from step 2. Self-learning procedure of Sunroof e Sliding sunroof and Sunshade shall be in open position within 4 mm to 200 mm from the cutout. e Close the sunroof fully by pressing ‘sunroof close switch’

within 4 mm to 200 mm from the cutout. e Close the sunroof fully by pressing ‘sunroof close switch’ and keep the switch pressed continuously. Do not release the switch and wait for fol- lowing actions to perform. e Sliding sunroof will start opening af- ter 5 sec pause and close automati- cally. Release the Switch to com- plete the procedure. e Close the sunshade fully by pressing ‘Sunshade close switch’ and keep 45  OPENING AND CLOSING the switch pressed continuously. Do . not release the switch and wait for following actions to perform. e Sunshade will start opening after 5 sec pause and close automatically. Release the Switch to complete the Always close the sunroof before leaving the vehicle or if it begins to rain. If the sunroof is open or tilted, rain could enter the vehi- cle interior and cause extensive damage to the electrical system. Improper use of the power sunroof can result in serious personal injury. e Always make sure that no one is in the Path/Cutout of the power

in serious personal injury. e Always make sure that no one is in the Path/Cutout of the power procedure. This could result in further vehi- sunroof when it is Closing OR e The self-learning command is com- cle damage. Opening ; , plete. Remove leaves and other ob- e Always take the key with you while NOTE Incase Sunroof and Sunshade Close switch is released in the middle of procedure, repeat from step 1. NOTE You can still open or close the power sunroof for 3 minutes af- ter you switch off the ignition, as long as the driver or front pas- senger door has not been opened. To help prevent damage, remove ice and snow from the sunroof before opening or tilting it in win- ter season. jects from the sunroof guiderails regularly either by hand or using a vacuum cleaner. If the power sunroof malfunc- tions, pinch protection may not function properly. See an author- ized TATA Motors dealer or an authorized TATA Motors Service Facility. The Sunshade can be opened and closed independently when

authorized TATA Motors Service Facility. The Sunshade can be opened and closed independently when the sliding sunroof is in closed position but will not operate in case sliding sunroof is open or in tilt position. Always close the sunroof while washing the vehicle. leaving the vehicle. Never leave children or disabled persons in the vehicle particu- larly, if they have access to the ve- hicle key. Unsupervised use of the remote control vehicle key makes it possible to lock the vehicle, start the engine, turn on the igni- tion and operate the sunroof.  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Cockpit A.C. Air vent Airbag (PAB) Infotainment Display (if available) Combi-Switch Horn pad Start/Stop switch (if available) Airbag (DAB) Steering Wheel Switches (if availa- ble) OO; © |INIMO/A\/R]/wl)yM]}—= Controls Foot Rest = o Terrain Response Knob (if availa- ble) 12 | Cooled storage box 13 | Parking Brake Lever 14 | Gear Shift Lever 15 | USB/AUX Port 16 | HVAC Control panel NOTE: All location shown may not

14 | Gear Shift Lever 15 | USB/AUX Port 16 | HVAC Control panel NOTE: All location shown may not be applicable to your vehicle / Variants. 17 _| Fascia switches 18 | Center Air Vent 19 | Glove Box 47  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Instrument Cluster ( TFT Screen) Tachometer Driver Information Display Speedometer Distance To Empty Ars 280 no i, Po Lh Clmt-tH_ ~—OD0 256849 km DEF Gauge Temperature Gauge Fuel Gauge NOTE: All indicators shown may not be applicable to your vehicle. 48  Speedometer Speedometer indicates the vehicle speed in km/h. NOTE Whenever you turn the ignition ON, the instrument cluster needles and gauges move to maximum value and return to '0' position. This is a welcome strategy and a self-check feature. Tachometer a2? NORMAL Tachometer indicates engine speed in revolutions per min (rpm). Never drive the vehicle with high engine rpm. This may cause severe engine damage. DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Fuel Gauge When the ignition switch is in “ON” posi- tion, fuel gauge gives an

AND FEATURES Fuel Gauge When the ignition switch is in “ON” posi- tion, fuel gauge gives an approximate in- dication of the amount of fuel in the fuel tank. In indication window, “F” stands for full and “E” stands for empty. TF E When fuel in the tank is near to empty position, low fuel warning telltale turns Amber. Refill the tank as soon as possi- ble. 49  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES NOTE e Check the fuel level when the ve- hicle is stationary on a level road. e The fuel level displayed can vary when you drive on_ inclines, curves, brake and accelerate suddenly. This is due to the movement of fuel in the tank. The low fuel warning lamp may turn to ON or OFF earlier or later than usual. If there is any fault in the system, the low fuel warning symbol will blink. Take your vehicle to the near- est TATA MOTORS Authorized ser- vice centre.. 50 Temperature Gauge When the ignition switch is in the “ON” position, this gauge indicates the engine coolant temperature. *- The indicator should be

the “ON” position, this gauge indicates the engine coolant temperature. *- The indicator should be within the nor- mal, acceptable temperature range i.e. between “H” and “C”. If the indicator ap- proaches “H”, overheating is indicated by red progress bar. If the coolant temperature is very high, the engine coolant temperature telltale flashes with an audio warning. In this case, stop the vehicle, switch ‘OFF’ the engine and allow it to cool down for some time. Contact the nearest TATA MOTORS authorized service centre im- mediately for rectification. The red progress bar on high cool- ant temperature indicates over- heating that may damage the en- gine. Continuing to drive the vehi- cle when engine overheating is in- dicated can result in severe engine damage or fire. DEF Gauge When the ignition switch is in the “ON” position, arrow in the gauge indicates level of DEF left in the tank. The Indicator should be within the ac- ceptable range. i.e., between "E" and "F". When DEF in tank is

Indicator should be within the ac- ceptable range. i.e., between "E" and "F". When DEF in tank is near to empty posi- tion, DEF tell tale near to gauge will glow with subsequent Text alert on DIS Screen. If DEF level reaches to critically  low level, then DEF Gauge will be re- placed by the permanent text alert along with buzzer. Similarly for Low DEF Quality & SCR Fault there are featured text and warnings pre- sent to alert the driver regarding condi- tion of DEF System. If DEF Level or DEF Quality or SCR Fault becomes Critical after suffi- cient alerts, warnings, Buzzers & If not rectified then Text alert will be displayed permanently on DIC Screen stating vehicle will not re- start in next key ON & Vehicle will not start. If any problem comes then, Take your vehicle to the nearest TATA MOTORS Authorized service cen- ter. NOTE Check the DEF Level when the ve- hicle is on level road. DEF Level Displayed may vary when you drive on inclines, de- clines, curves, brakes & acceler- ate

DEF Level Displayed may vary when you drive on inclines, de- clines, curves, brakes & acceler- ate suddenly. This is due to the movement of DEF in the tank. If SCR Fault issue comes the take your vehicle to the nearest TATA MOTORS Authorized service cen- ter. DASHBOARD AND FEATURES 51  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Driver Information System Driver Information | System Image Description Indicates distance travelled by a vehicle. The odometer reading does not Odometer O 256894 km return to “O” when maximum value is reached, the display will freeze to max- imum value. Trip A 0000.0 km The trip meter can be used to measure the distance travelled on short trips Trip meterA&B or between fuel stops. It can be reset to “0”. The Trip meter reading becomes “0.0” after it crosses 9999.9 km. Indicates current time in AM/PM mode. Whenever the battery terminals or related fuses are connected, you must Clock reset the clock time. This feature is available when ignition switch is in NOTE: Clock settings can

reset the clock time. This feature is available when ignition switch is in NOTE: Clock settings can also be changed through infotainment system. For more information, refer infotainment manual. Power Indicates the value of Power and Torque delivered by engine in the particular Power and Torque a driving condition. Torque 52  Driver Information Service reminder System Image Pause sin |, 001450 en DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Des Indicates the number of days/kilometers in which service is due. If service is overdue, it will display “O” km or “0” days and spanner symbol will blink at every ignition ON for few seconds. Never reset the display between service intervals otherwise this may result in to incorrect readings. Information is re- tained in the service interval display even after the vehicle battery is discon- nected. NOTE: This option is for indicative purpose only. Keep track of your odomete: reading and follow the maintenance schedule. Door Ajar Door Open Respective door open display

reading and follow the maintenance schedule. Door Ajar Door Open Respective door open display pop up comes up for 5 sec and then minimize telltale glows with respective door open will displayed. Current gear position (indicator) (for MT & AT- Manual Mode) Current gear engaged by the transmission shall be displayed on DIS. NOTE: If “Fault” is displayed it means a ‘Fault’ condition. Contact the TATA MOTORS authorized service centre. In case of Manual Transmission, the gear number shall be displayed when the clutch is fully released. 53  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Driver Information Current gear position (indicator) (for AT) System Image Description Current gear engaged by the transmission shall be displayed on DIS. NOTE: If “Fault” is displayed it means ‘Fault’ condition. Contact the TATA MOTORS Authorised Service Centre. In case of Automatic Transmission, the gear type P-Park, D-Drive, N-Neutral and R-Reverse will be displayed as per automatic gear selected. Gear Recommendation (for MT) Up

and R-Reverse will be displayed as per automatic gear selected. Gear Recommendation (for MT) Up or down arrow shall be displayed on DIS whenever a gear should be shifted up or down. No arrow shall be displayed when the selected gear is as per the vehicle dy- namics. Driver Control Shift Denied Z\ Transmission Alert Gear Shift Denied This message displayed when gear shift is denied in manual mode. User has to drive the vehicle in recommended speed to change the gear. Electronic Brake Distribution Fault Electronic Brake Distribution (EBD) System Fault User has to take the vehicle to Authorized Tata motors service station. 54  Driver Informa Transmission Oil Temperature High System Image Description This message disp lowable limit. User has to take the vehic layed when transmission oil temperature is higher than al- DASHBOARD AND FEATURES le to Authorized Tata motors service station. Transmission Failure Drive Cautiously Visit Service Centre 03 Transmission Malfunction Drive Cautiously

Failure Drive Cautiously Visit Service Centre 03 Transmission Malfunction Drive Cautiously Contact Customer Genter This message displayed w User has to take the vehic hen transmission related failure is present. le to Authorized Tata motors service station. Transmission failure Malfunction detected contact service center 03 Transmission Malfunction Malfunction Detected Contact Customer Genter This message displayed w User has to take the vehic hen transmission related failure is present. le to Authorized Tata Motors service station. Shift to Park to Exit ZX Transmission Alert Shift to Park (P) to Exit This message displayed w hen shift lever not in P (park) mode. Shift to Park or Neutral to start the Engine ZX Transmission Alert Shift to Park or Neutral to Start Engine This message displayed when shift lever not in P (park) or N (neutral) mode while starting the engine. 55  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES 1. Instantaneous Fuel Economy (IFE) rpm x 1000 12.09 AM v1 BE ciry EcieetetH §— 000 14743

FEATURES 1. Instantaneous Fuel Economy (IFE) rpm x 1000 12.09 AM v1 BE ciry EcieetetH §— 000 14743 km Pete It indicates fuel economy of current drive when Ignition is turned ‘ON’. To reach the Instant Fuel Economy in the Instrument cluster. Press the switch, which is on the RHS steering switch. The display does not show actual value unless vehicle is moving. 56 e IFE will vary frequently as per driving pattern. e IFE display does not show Fuel Economy of last drive. 2. Power and Torque pm x 1000 12:47 AM » qF 000 14878 km Indicates the amount of power and torque delivered by engine in the partic- ular driving condition. 3. Average Fuel Economy (AFE) rpm x 1000 42:10AM Trip B AFE value is estimate of fuel economy. It may vary significantly based upon driv- ing conditions, driving habits and condi- tion of the vehicle.  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES To see the Average fuel economy in the Instrument cluster. Press the switch on the RHS of the steering switch. Trip time, Average speed and Trip

cluster. Press the switch on the RHS of the steering switch. Trip time, Average speed and Trip dis- tance will reset to ‘0’ when respective Trip meter is reset. e Average Fuel Economy, Trip time and Average speed will get reset to ‘0’ when Battery is re- moved and refitted. e Average Fuel Economy will be displayed as ‘-.-‘for initial 0.5 km of respective trip. Once 0.5 km distance is covered, Average Fuel Economy will be displayed. e Even after 0.5 km distance cov- ered for particular trip, if Aver- age Fuel Economy is displayed as ‘-.-‘, then take your vehicle to TATA MOTORS Authorized Ser- vice Centre. 4. Distance to Empty (DTE) rpm x 1000 Distance To Empty v1 FS 24440 Hi ciry PE bemF ODO 14785 km The above DTE screen indicates approx- imate distance in ‘km’ that your vehicle can travel with available fuel in the tank. To reach the Distance to empty in the In- strument cluster. Press the switch, which is on RHS steering switch. DTE values may vary significantly based on driving

the switch, which is on RHS steering switch. DTE values may vary significantly based on driving conditions, driving habits, and condition of the vehicle. It is an estimate value of the available driving distance. If low fuel warning light turns ‘ON’, fill the fuel tank immediately regardless the value of displayed DTE. NOTE e If DTE is displayed as ‘—‘, then take your vehicle to the TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre. e The DTE will update with new value when fuel is added for more than 7 Litres at a time. 5. Infotainment Information on In- strument Cluster Display unit. The Instrument Cluster will display the Infotainment information like Media, Navigation and FM. 57  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES 6. Setting Screen pm x 1000 ‘Xf Settings: HE cry EicRUISE. 42knn Pelee Ec tet = 000 14812km You can enter into setting screen by pressing select button @ while being in setting screen. 58 Following options are displayed in the setting screen: pm x 1000 25°C Settings Units tumination | Service

options are displayed in the setting screen: pm x 1000 25°C Settings Units tumination | Service Reminder Reset About Back cru! Echo i cry Elomi ‘ODO 14842 km To change the option from unit to service reminder reset by pressing on the RHS of steering switch. Illumination Screen You can select illumination setting by scroll down using BR up or down on the RHS steering switch and by pressing select button. You can increase the Illumination from (20% to100%) in 5 steps by pressing on the RHS of steering switch. Following screen gets displayed: rpm x 1000 12:13AM »> F Mlumination 60 ee a 100 _ BICRUISE 42mm (000 14868 km  Service Reminder Reset You can select Service reminder reset screen by scroll down & pressing set but- ton in settings screen. You can select Yes or No option by up or down arrows & set button. Service Reminder? \ ites cancet U F Cis IH ODO 14878 km NOTE In setting menu if there is no user input for 10 sec, previous screen shall be displayed. About Screen You can select

there is no user input for 10 sec, previous screen shall be displayed. About Screen You can select about option by scroll up or down and pressing set button on RHS steering switches. It dis- plays open source license disclosure. Pressing select button while in about screen, the screen will be close and goes to previous screen. DASHBOARD AND FEATURES 7. Outside Ambient Temperature 12:11AM a» pty. « Far 503m \ CRUISE 82km/h \ 3 This displays outside ambient tempera- ture in units of °C with the resolution of 1°C. The temperature sensor is located on the front bumper of the vehicle, there- fore the temperature reading can be af- fected by heat reflection from the road surface, engine heat and the exhaust from surrounding traffic. 59  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES NOTE For an accurate temperature read- ing, make sure the vehicle speed is above 30 kmph. If display shows OAT temp as “- - “, take your car to a TATA authorized service Centre.  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Display Messages on Instrument

car to a TATA authorized service Centre.  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Display Messages on Instrument Cluster Below messages can be displayed in the screen for 3 sec based on the priority. 1. Warning Messages (messages displayed within the Red border) rpm x 1000 iy 12:27 AM > F Vv | Over Speeding Detected Slow Down HR ciry ox CRUISE 42 kmin J <ECleeteIH ODO 14878 km NOTE: All messages may not be applicable to your vehicle SN Warning / Information Title Warning Message Title Warning Messages on Instrument Cluster 1 Fasten Seat Belt - Driver Seat Belt Reminder Fasten Driver Seat Belt 2 Speed Limit Warning Speed Limit Warning Over Speeding Detected Slow Down 61  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES SN Warning / Information Title Warning Message Title Warning Messages on Instrument Cluster 3 Transmission Failure Drive Cau- Transmission Malfunction Drive Cautiously Contact Service Center tiously Visit Service Center 4 Drive Control Shift Denied Drive Mode Warning Drive Control Shift Denied 5 Hill Hold Control

4 Drive Control Shift Denied Drive Mode Warning Drive Control Shift Denied 5 Hill Hold Control Failure Hill Hold Control Malfunction Detected Contact Service Center 6 Hill Decent Control Failure Hill Decent Control Malfunction Detected Contact Service Center 7 Fuel Level Low State Fuel Level Warning Fuel Level Low 8 Fasten seat belt front passenger Seat Belt Reminder Fasten Front passenger Seat Belt 9 Transmission Failure Limp home Transmission System Malfunction Detected Contact Service Center Activated Visit Service Center 10 DEF level warning 1 DEF Level Low DEF Level Low Refill Soon . Engine Stops in “Value” Km 11 DEF level warning 2 DEF Level Low Refill DEF | Engine Stops in “Value” Km 12 DEF level warning 3 DEF Level Low Refill DEF | Engine Stops in “Value” Km 13 DEF level warning 4 DEF Level Low Refill DEF 62  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES SN Warning / Information Title Warning Message Title Warning Messages on Instrument Cluster 14 DEF level warning 5 DEF Level Low meer eee in

Title Warning Messages on Instrument Cluster 14 DEF level warning 5 DEF Level Low meer eee in “Value” Km 15 DEF level warning 6 DEF Level Low Engine Will Not Restart In Next Key On 16 DEF level warning 7 DEF Level Low DE Tank Empty 17 DEF quality warning 1 DEF Quality Low Check DEP System 18 DEF quality warning 2 DEF Quality Low Chuck DEP Sys value! Km 19 DEF quality warning 3 DEF Quality Low Check DEF Sys Naluet Km 20 DEF quality warning 4 DEF Quality Low Chuck DEP Sys value! Km 21 DEF quality warning 5 DEF Quality Low Chuck DEP Sys value! Km 22 DEF quality warning 6 DEF Quality Low Engine Will Not Restart In Next Key On 23 DEF quality warning 7 DEF Quality Low Chuck DEP Sys em 24 | DEF fault warning 1 SCR System Fault Coe stem Fann tre 63  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES SN Warning / Information Title Warning Message Title Warning Messages on Instrument Cluster 25 DEF fault warning 2 DEF System Fault Engine S Ops in “Value” Km Contact Service Centre 26 DEF fault warning 3 DEF System Fault

Fault Engine S Ops in “Value” Km Contact Service Centre 26 DEF fault warning 3 DEF System Fault Engine S Ops in “Value” Km Contact Service Centre 27 DEF fault warning 4 DEF System Fault Engine S ops in “Value” Km Contact Service Centre 28 DEF fault warning 5 DEF System Fault Engine S ops in “Value” Km Contact Service Centre 29 DEF fault warning 6 DEF System Fault Engine Will Not Restart In Next Key On . - -. Engine Stop 30 DEF fault warning 7 DEF System Fault Contact Service Centre 64  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES 2. Alert Messages (messages displayed within Grey border) rpm x 1000 12:29 AM »> F L\ tamp Alert b 4 1 Auto Headlamp Activated fa city oK < CRUISE 42 kmin 4 Bel toiF cE.Cle=teIH ODO 14878 km NOTE: All messages may not be applicable to your vehicle. SN Alert / Information Title Alert Message Title Action to be taken 1 ore eaeuyation Due To Speed Hill Decent Control System Deactivated Speed Crossed Set Limit 2 Park Brake Engaged Brake Alert Park Brake Engaged 3 Electronic Stability

Speed Crossed Set Limit 2 Park Brake Engaged Brake Alert Park Brake Engaged 3 Electronic Stability Off Electronic Stability System ESP Turned Off 4 Traction Control Off Traction Control System TCS Turned Off 5 Gear shift denied Transmission alert Drive shift denied 65  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES SN Alert / Information Title Alert Message Title Action to be taken Shift to Park to Vehicle Off func- woos . 6 tion on AT Vehicle Transmission alert Shift to Park (P) to Exit 7 Hill Descent Control Active Hill Descent Control HDC Activated 8 Auto Headlamp Lamp Alert Auto Headlamp Activated Resume to Target Speed Not . . . . 9 Possible in Current Gear Cruise Control Shift to higher gear to resume Cruise Speed 10 Cruise Override Cruise Control Cruise Override 11 Hill Descent Control Switched On Hill Descent Control HDC Turned ON 12 Shift fo Park (PIN) . vehicle Start Transmission Alert Shift to Park or Neutral to Start Engine function for AT vehicle 66  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES 3. Interrupt Messages

or Neutral to Start Engine function for AT vehicle 66  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES 3. Interrupt Messages rpm x 1000 12:25 AM » F , ‘s] \ (aj WET = - PEF ECl==t==1H_ ODO 48018 km NOTE: All messages may not be applicable to your vehicle. SN Alert / Information Title Action to be taken 1 Rotate steering wheel (In ESCL jam condition) | Press Start Button while Turning Wheel 2 Smart key out of range Smart Key Out of Range 3 Drive Alert - Tea Break Take a Break 4 Steering Failure-Visit Garage Steering Failure Contact Service Center 5 Steering Failure-Stop Driving Steering Failure Stop the Vehicle Safely 6 Door Ajar Door open 67  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES SN Alert / Information Title Action to be taken 7 Combination alerts Check Tires 8 Air Leak Leakage Detected Check Tires 9 ESCL Press Start Button While Turning Wheel 10 No Key Smart Key Out of Range 11 Low Key Battery Smart Key Battery Low Replace Battery 12 Press Clutch Pedal Press Clutch Pedal to Start Engine 13 Press Brake Pedal Press Brake

Battery 12 Press Clutch Pedal Press Clutch Pedal to Start Engine 13 Press Brake Pedal Press Brake Pedal to Start Engine 14 Drive Modes Respective drive mode 15 Tea Break Take a Break 68  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Instrument Cluster (LCD Screen) Tachometer Driver Information Display Fuel Gauge Speedometer BOOT OPEN * Set knob Temperature Gauge Mode knob NOTE: All indicators shown may not be applicable to your vehicle 69  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Speedometer Speedometer indicates the vehicle speed in km/h. NOTE Whenever you turn the ignition ON, the instrument cluster needles and gauges move to maximum value and return to '0' position. This is a welcome strategy and a self-check feature. 70 Tachometer Tachometer indicates engine speed in revolutions per min (rpm). Never drive the vehicle with high engine ‘rpm’. This may cause se- vere engine damage. Fuel Gauge When the ignition switch is in “ON” posi- tion, fuel gauge gives an approximate in- dication of the amount of fuel in the fuel tank.

posi- tion, fuel gauge gives an approximate in- dication of the amount of fuel in the fuel tank. “F” stands for full and “E” stands for empty. When fuel in the tank is near to empty position, low fuel warning telltale turns Amber. Refill the tank as soon as possi- ble.  NOTE e Check the fuel level when the ve- hicle on a level road. e The fuel level displayed can vary when you drive on_ inclines, curves, brake and accelerate suddenly. This is due to the movement of fuel in the tank. The low fuel warning lamp may turn to ON or OFF earlier or later than usual. If there is any fault in the system, the low fuel warning symbol will start blinking. Take your vehicle to the nearest TATA MOTORS author- ized service centre. Temperature Gauge When the ignition switch is in the “ON” position, this gauge indicates the engine coolant temperature. The indicator should stay within the nor- mal, acceptable temperature range be- tween “H” and “C”. If the indicator ap- proaches “H”, overheating is

temperature range be- tween “H” and “C”. If the indicator ap- proaches “H”, overheating is indicated by a red bar. If the coolant temperature reading is very high, the engine coolant tempera- ture telltale flashes with an audible buzzer. In this case, stop the vehicle, switch ‘OFF’ the engine and cool it down for some time. Contact the nearest TATA MOTORS Authorised Service Centre im- mediately for rectification. DASHBOARD AND FEATURES The Red bar on high coolant tem- perature warning indicates over- heating that may damage the en- gine. Continuing to drive the vehi- cle when engine overheating is in- dicated can result in severe engine damage or fire. IFE Gauge It indicates fuel economy of current drive when Ignition is turned ‘ON’. To reach the Instant Fuel Economy in the Instrument cluster. Press the SET and MODE button. The display does not show actual value unless vehicle is moving. 71  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES NOTE e IFE will vary frequently as per driving pattern. e FE display

71  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES NOTE e IFE will vary frequently as per driving pattern. e FE display does not show Fuel Economy of last drive. DEF Gauge When the ignition switch is in the “ON” position, this gauge indicates level of DEF left in the tank. The Indicator should be within the ac- ceptable range. i.e., between "E" and "F". When DEF in tank is near to empty posi- tion, DEF tell tale near to gauge will glow with subsequent text messages on LCD screen. If DEF level reaches to critically low level, only DEF gauge will be dis- played. 72 Similarly for Low DEF Quality & SCR Fault there are featured text and warnings pre- sent to alert the driver regarding condi- tion of DEF System. e If DEF Level or DEF Quality or SCR Fault becomes critical after de- fined interval of warnings text alert will be displayed perma- nently on LCD screen stating vehi- cle will not restart in next key ON. e On getting defined text messages related to Quality and SCR Fault, take your vehicle to the nearest

On getting defined text messages related to Quality and SCR Fault, take your vehicle to the nearest TATA MOTORS Authorized service center. NOTE e Check the DEF Level when the ve- hicle is on level road. e DEF Level Displayed may vary when you drive on inclines, de- clines, curves, brakes & acceler- ate suddenly. This is due to the movement of DEF in the tank. e If SCR Fault issue comes the take your vehicle to the nearest TATA MOTORS Authorized service cen- ter. e FE gauge and DEF Gauge can be rollover each other with all combi- nations when DEF level in vehicle is not critical.  Driver Information System Driver Information System Image DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Description Indicates distance travelled by a vehicle. The Odometer reading does not Odometer opo {923 ikm return to “O” when maximum value is reached, the display will freeze to maximum value. rap {e3.4 The trip meter can be used to measure the distance travelled on short trips Trip meterA&B or between fuel stops. It can be

to measure the distance travelled on short trips Trip meterA&B or between fuel stops. It can be reset to “0”. The Trip meter reading be- comes “0.0” after it crosses 9999.9 km. TRIP 983.4 me Indicates current time in AM/PM mode. Clock time can be changed using ‘SET’ & ‘MODE’ knob. mene Whenever the battery terminals or related fuses are connected, you must Clock ‘OAM J reset the clock time. This feature is available when ignition switch is in ON, position. NOTE: Clock settings can also be changed through infotainment system. For more information, refer infotainment manual. my This warning will be indicated when driver door is open. Door Ajar N is NOTE: If any other door is open, the roof lamp will be ‘ON’. 73  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Driver Information Service reminder System Image cu a Description Indicates the number of days/kilometers in which service is due. If service is overdue, it will display “O” km or “O” days and spanner symbol will blink at every ignition ON for few seconds.

will display “O” km or “O” days and spanner symbol will blink at every ignition ON for few seconds. Never reset the display between ser- vice intervals otherwise this may result in to incorrect readings. Infor- mation is retained in the service interval display even after the vehicle battery is disconnected. NOTE: This option is for indicative purpose only. Keep track of your odom-+ eter reading and follow the maintenance schedule. Current gear position indica tor (For MT) Current gear engaged by the transmission shall be displayed on Driver In- formation System. NOTE: If “F” is displayed it means a ‘Fault’ condition. Contact the TATA MOTORS authorized service centre. In case of Manual Transmission, the gear number shall be displayed when the clutch is fully released. Gear Recommendation Up or down arrow shall be displayed on DIS whenever a gear should be! shifted up or down. No arrow shall be displayed when the selected gear is as per the vehicle dynamics. 74  Driver Information

shall be displayed when the selected gear is as per the vehicle dynamics. 74  Driver Information Current gear position indica tor (For AT) System Image fi... LED vesese N ee EF fi... DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Description Current gear engaged by the transmission shall be displayed on DIS. NOTE: If “F” is displayed it means ‘Fault’ condition. Contact the TATA MOTORS Authorised Service Centre. In case of Automatic Transmission, the Gear numbers shall be dis- played as per automatic gear selected. 75  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES 1. Average Fuel Economy (AFE) Trip time, Average speed and Trip dis- tance will reset to ‘0’ when respective Trip meter is reset. Average Fuel Economy will be displayed as ‘-.--‘for initial 0.5 km of respective trip. Once 0.5 km distance is covered, Av- erage Fuel Economy will be displayed. Even after 0.5 km distance covered for particular trip, if Average fuel economy is displayed as ‘--.-‘, then take your vehicle to TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre. 76 NOTE e AFE

displayed as ‘--.-‘, then take your vehicle to TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre. 76 NOTE e AFE value is an estimate of fuel economy. It may vary signifi- cantly based upon driving condi- tions, driving habits and condi- tion of vehicle. e Average Fuel Consumption will get Reset to ‘0’ when Battery is removed and refitted. 2. Distance to Empty (DTE) The above image indicates an approxi- mate distance in ‘km’ that your vehicle can travel with available fuel in tank. DTE values may vary significantly based on driving conditions, driving habits, and condition of the vehicle. It is an estimate value of the available driving distance. The DTE will update with new value when fuel is added more than 7 litres at a time. If low fuel warning light turns ‘ON’, fill the fuel tank immediately regardless the value of displayed DTE. If DTE is displayed as ‘—-‘, then take your vehicle to the TATA MOTORS authorized service centre. 3. Instrument Cluster Illumination Instrument cluster illumination

authorized service centre. 3. Instrument Cluster Illumination Instrument cluster illumination & back- light illumination will turn on after Park lamp is ON.  Illumination can be changed by SET but- ton short press (less than 1.5 seconds). The clock and instrument cluster il- lumination settings should be changed only when the vehicle is in stationary condition for safety pur- poses. 4. Outside Ambient Temperature This displays outside ambient tempera- ture in units of °C with the resolution of 1°C. The temperature sensor is located on the front bumper of the vehicle, there- fore the temperature reading can be af- fected by heat reflection from the road surface, engine heat and the exhaust from surrounding traffic. DASHBOARD AND FEATURES 77  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Display Messages on Instrument Cluster sn | Warning Title/ Title Warning Messages on 1 Speed Limit Warning OVER SPEED BOOT OPEN HDC Deactivation Due 2 To Speed Above Set HDC DEACTIVE Value 3 Engine Is Locked ENGINE LOCKED 4

HDC Deactivation Due 2 To Speed Above Set HDC DEACTIVE Value 3 Engine Is Locked ENGINE LOCKED 4 Low Brake Fluid LOW BRAKE FLUID 5 Electronic Stability Off ESP OFF 6 Hill Decent Control Active | HDC ACTIVE 7 Service Reminder Days SERVICE DUE 8 Service Reminder Kms SERVICE DUE 9 Fuel Level Low State LOW FUEL 10 | Drive Alert1 - Tea Break TAKE A BREAK 11 | Smart key out of range KEY OUT OF RANGE 12 ESCl jam condition). (In| ROTATE STEERING Resume to Target Speed 13 Seep ossible in Current UNABLE TO RESUME NOTE: All messages may not be applicable to your vehicle. 78  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Warning Messages on Warning Messages on SN | Warning Title/ Title Instrument Cluster SN | Warning Title/ Title Instrument Cluster 4 | Cruise off CRUISE OFF 24 hoe sen oil temp AT TEMP HIGH 5 Cruise deactivated/can- CRUISE CANCELLED ~ DEF LOW REFILL cel 25 | DEF Level Low Level 1 SOON Cruise is Resuming to = 6 CRUISE RESUMED - ENG NOT START AF- set speed 26 | DEF Level Low Level 2 TER “VALUE” KM 7 |

to = 6 CRUISE RESUMED - ENG NOT START AF- set speed 26 | DEF Level Low Level 2 TER “VALUE” KM 7 | Press Clutch for MT PRESS CLUTCH 97 | DEE L 3 ENG NOT START AF- 8 | Press Brake for MT PRESS BRAKE revel Low Leve TER “VALUE” KM Transmission Failure 28 | DEF L 4 ENG NOT START AF- 9 | Limp home Activated AT FAULT revel Low reve TER “VALUE” KM Visit Service Center _ ENG NOT START AF- Transmission Failure 29 | DEF Level LowLevel5 | TER syalUE” KM 20 | Drive Cautiously Visit AT FAULT _ ENG NOT START NEXT Service Centre 30 | DEF Level Low Level 6 KEY ON Shift to Park (P) - vehi- 31 | DEF Level Low Level7 | ENG STOP DEF 21 | cle Stop function for AT | SHIFT-> P ~ ~ EMPTY vehicle 32 | DEF Quality Low Level 1. | LOW DEF QLTY Shift to Park (P/N) - ve- Z LOW DEF QLTY ENG 22 | hicle Start function for | SHIFT->P/N 33 | DEF Quality Low Level 2 | Grr «yal YE" KM AT vehicle a LOW DEF QLTY ENG 23 | Jet Pump Fault FUEL SYS FAULT 34 | DEF Quality Low Level 3 | OFF «yal UE” KM 79  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES

Pump Fault FUEL SYS FAULT 34 | DEF Quality Low Level 3 | OFF «yal UE” KM 79  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Warning Messages on SN | Warning Title/ Title Instrument Cluster 35 | DEF Quality Low Level 4 OPE VALUE” KM 36 | DEF Quality Low Level 5 OPE VALUE” KM 37 | DEF Quality Low Level 6 NOW cur ENG 38 | DEF Quality Low Level 7 So QLTY ENG 39 | SCR Fault Level 4 SCR FAULT 40 | SCR Fault Level 2 RUS KM ENG OFF 41 | SCR Fault Level 3 RUS KM ENG OFF 42 | SCR Fault Level 4 RUS KM ENG OFF 43 | SCR Fault Level 5 RUS KM ENG OFF 44 | SCR Fault Level 6 sen ENG NOT 45 | SCR Fault Level 7 SCR FAULT ENG STOP 80  Tell Tales Warning Lamps Malfunction Indication Lamp (MIL) Color Amber Indicator DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Remarks This lamp comes on when ignition is switched ‘ON’. Once engine is started, it turns ‘OFF’. It remains ‘ON’ for any engine related fault that may increase emis- sion levels of the vehicle beyond the regulatory norms. Contact the TATA MOTORS Authorised Service Centre for rectification.

beyond the regulatory norms. Contact the TATA MOTORS Authorised Service Centre for rectification. Check Engine Lamp Amber This lamp comes on when ignition is switched ‘ON’. Once engine is started, it turns ‘OFF’. This lamp comes on continuously if a fault arises in Engine Man- agement System. Contact the TATA MOTORS authorized service centre. Immobilizer Red This lamp comes on when the system disables engine start if the original key is not used. Lamp blinks: Vehicle is in immobilized condition when key is not inserted. Lamp ON: Problem with key/system. Contact a TATA MOTORS Au- thorized Service Centre. Lamp OFF: Normal condition (Authenticated user) and engine will start. 81  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Warning Lamps Color Indicator Remarks Pre-Heat indicator / i 1. This lamp comes on when ignition key is in ‘ON’ position. tDiesel indicator Amber 2. Engine shall be started only after this indicator goes ‘OFF’. Indicates direction indicated by the turn signal. Blinks along with buzzer

indicator goes ‘OFF’. Indicates direction indicated by the turn signal. Blinks along with buzzer while operating left/right turn indicator only when ignition is switched ‘ON’. The direction indicator arrow on Instru- Turn Signal Green ment Cluster flashes along with external indicator lights as selected. Both Tell tales shall blink simultaneously when Hazard switch is pressed irrespective of Ignition ON and the Tick-Tock sound shall be given when any one or both the Tell tales are ON. | This lamp comes on when the high beam headlamps are switched High Beam Blue ‘ON’ or flashed 1. This lamp comes on when ignition is switched ‘ON’ and goes ‘OFF’ once required engine oil pressure is developed after starting the . engine. Low Oil Pressure Red 2. If the low oil pressure indicator does not glow or remains ‘ON’ with indicator the ‘IGN’ ‘ON’ and engine is running, it indicates a fault in the elec- trical circuit / lubrication system. Contact the TATA MOTORS Au- thorized service centre. 82

elec- trical circuit / lubrication system. Contact the TATA MOTORS Au- thorized service centre. 82  Warning Lamps Battery charging Color Red Indicator DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Remarks This lamp comes on when ignition is switched ‘ON’ however it will be switched OFF after pre check of 4sec. If it remains ‘ON’ while the engine is running, it indicates that the battery is not getting charged. Switch off all unnecessary electrical equipment and contact the TATA MOTORS Authorized service centre. Driver seat belt warning Red Seat belt warning indicator comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds, when ignition is turned ‘ON’. If seat belt is not fastened and speed is less than 15 Kmph, then seat belt telltale will turn ON as initial warning. If seat belt is not fastened and vehicle speed goes above 15 Kmph, then final warning will start with telltale flashing and Audio chime for 90 sec- onds. After 90 seconds, telltale will be ON and Audio chime will be OFF. Note: e Telltale will turn off either when seatbelt

will be ON and Audio chime will be OFF. Note: e Telltale will turn off either when seatbelt is buckled or Reverse gear is engaged when it is in initial warning stage. e When it is in final warning with Chime ON, the telltale will be OFF on fastening the seat belt or engaging the reverse gear. HHC Warning lamp (if available) Amber In case of HHC malfunction HHC warning lamp will remain continuously, ON. Please take your vehicle to nearest TATA authorized service centre at the earliest. 83  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Warning Lamps Color Indicator Remarks . This lamp comes on when ignition is switched ‘ON’ and goes ‘OFF’ Airbag status . . ‘ . (if available) Red in approx. 4 seconds. If it continuously remains on or blinks then contact the TATA MOTORS Authorized service centre immediately. This lamp comes on momentarily when ignition is switched ‘ON’. Once parking brake is released, it turns ‘OFF’. If it remains ‘ON’, it Park Brake / Brake Fluid Red indicates Low / EBD malfunction 1. Brake

‘OFF’. If it remains ‘ON’, it Park Brake / Brake Fluid Red indicates Low / EBD malfunction 1. Brake fluid level is low. 2. Park brake is applied & turns ‘OFF’ when it is released. 3. EBD malfunctioning Illuminates when ignition is switched ‘ON’ and goes ‘OFF’ in approx. 4 seconds. If the engine is overheating, this indicator blinks along with an audi- ble buzzer at his stage Contact the TATA MOTORS Authorised Ser- . vice Centre immediately. This symbol blinks along with audible High Coolant ft A Red wa buzzer when engine coolant temperature is more than normal. Temperature Pee When engine coolant temp increases to hazardous level, Tell tale shall blink with RED color and it is accompanied by audio warning. Note: Never remove the radiator pressure cap from the radiator when the engine is hot. Do not restart the engine until the problem has been duly attended. 84  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Warning Lamps Color Indicator Remarks The lamps comes on when ignition is switched ‘ON’ and goes

Warning Lamps Color Indicator Remarks The lamps comes on when ignition is switched ‘ON’ and goes ‘OFF’ in 3 seconds. The lamps remains on continuously if there is any malfunction ABS Amber in ABS. Normal braking system will be operational without assistance of ABS. Contact the TATA MOTORS Authorized service centre. Illuminates momentarily when ignition is switched ‘ON’. The symbol lights up continuously if fuel level in the tank is low. Fuel oo needs to be filled immediately. Low Fuel indicator Amber IMPORTANT: The telltale warning lamp will start flashing if there is any fault in the fuel system. Contact the TATA MOTORS Authorized service centre immediately. « This symbol lights up when the ‘IGN’ is turned ‘ON’ and shall go ‘OFF’ after Cruise Control lamp Green iS 4 sec. The Cruise Control is used to indicate the status of cruise control (if available) system to the driver. Lamp ON indicates cruise control feature is present and it is activated. Press Clutch Pedal to we Press Clutch:

cruise control feature is present and it is activated. Press Clutch Pedal to we Press Clutch: The lamps comes on ON with IGN ON till user presses the| Start Engine Amber Sy . ‘ . clutch pedal to start the engine. (if available) . The lamp remains on continuously if excess water is accumulated in the Water in fuel 7 fuel filter. Contact the TATA MOTORS Authorised service centre to drain (Dieeal). Amber 1 the water immediately to avoid serious damage to the fuel injection sys- tem. 85  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES vehicle. Warning Lamps Color Indicator Remarks Daytime running lamps G DRL are used to increase the visibility of the vehicle to other drivers during (DRL) (if available) reen daytime. This lamps comes on when the Day Time Running lamp is ‘ON’. . All four door and Tail gate are indicated independently when the Door Ajar lamp Red . . . respective door or tail gate is open. : Os) The lamps comes on if Hill Decent Control System is activated. | HDC Warning lamp Amber ‘Oo continuously

comes on if Hill Decent Control System is activated. | HDC Warning lamp Amber ‘Oo continuously ON then HDC system is at fault condition, Please take your] (if available) vehicle to nearest TATA authorized service centre at the earliest Rear Fog Lamp La, (if available) Amber The lamps comes on when the rear fog lamp is ‘ON’. Front Fog Lamp . . F Green x The lamps comes on when the front fog lamp is ‘ON’. (if available) Key Not Detected J This lamps comes on when the Valid Smart key is not detected inside the Amber i (if available) 86  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Warning Lamps Color Indicator Remarks Electronic Stability Pro- | | . If continuously ON then ESP system is at fault condition, Please take gram (ESP) Amber : : , : : - your vehicle to nearest TATA authorized service center at the earliest. (if available) The Front passenger seatbelt warning indicator turns ON when igni- tion is turned ON. If front passenger seat is occupied by adult, the warning lamp re- mains ON as long as the

ON. If front passenger seat is occupied by adult, the warning lamp re- mains ON as long as the co-driver seatbelt is not fastened. Front passenger Seat Red If seatbelt remains unbuckled and vehicle goes above 15 kmph, Belt Indicator then final audio warning will go on for 90 seconds. Note: Once the seatbelt is fastened the buzzer and warning lamp turns OFF. Seatbelt reminder remains OFF when reverse gear is engaged. 87  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Warning Lamps Speed limit warning indicator Color Amber Indicator SPEED LIMIT Remarks This lamps comes on when ignition is switched ‘ON’ and goes ‘OFF’ after 4 Seconds. When the vehicle speed cross 80 kmph, then speed limit warning indicator turns ‘ON’ along with audio chime for every 2 minute chime (Audible warning). If vehicle speed crosses 120 kmph, the speed limit warning indicator turns 'ON' along with an audio chime (audio warning) continuously, until the vehicle speed is above 120 kmph. If vehicle speed is between 80 kmph and 120 kmph,

until the vehicle speed is above 120 kmph. If vehicle speed is between 80 kmph and 120 kmph, then the audio chime (audio warning) will become less frequent but the speed limit warning indi- cator will remain ‘ON’ continuously. When the vehicle speed is reduced below 80kmph, then the speed limit warning indicator and the audio chime (audio warning) will turn off. DPF Lamp Amber The lamp blinks constantly to indicate that the DPF needs to eliminate the trapped pollutants (particulate matter) through the regeneration process, it therefore does not indicate a malfunction. The lamp remains off during the entire DPF regeneration and it lamp up only when driving conditions require the driver to be notified. To switch off the lamp, keep the car running until regeneration is complete (ideally at 3% gear, 60 kmph. with engine speed over 2000 rpm). The process normally takes about 20 minutes. Note: Failure to obey the correct procedure for long distance when the DPF lamp comes ON can cause the

Failure to obey the correct procedure for long distance when the DPF lamp comes ON can cause the warning lamp (MIL) to come ON. In that case, please contact nearest TATA authorized service center to restore correct DPF operation. 88  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Warning Lamps Color Indicator Remarks ECO G ECO lamp ON indicates Economy drive. This mode is used to achieve (if available) reen better fuel economy. SPORT SPORT lamp ON indicates Sport drive mode. This mode is used to when (if available) Amber more torque is required. CITY . CITY lamp ON indicates City drive mode. This mode is used to achieve (if available) White CITY optimum torque with fuel economy. DEF Level This Telltale warns the driver once DEF level is detected to be low. This Amber TT monitors for emission issues. This features monitors the catalyst health & warns the user if there is SCR Fault Amber . a malfunction. 89  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Audio Reminders (if available) 1. Key-in Reminder/Audio Warning While leaving

AND FEATURES Audio Reminders (if available) 1. Key-in Reminder/Audio Warning While leaving the vehicle, if you forget the key inside the vehicle in ignition ‘OFF’ position, an audio warning will sound. Remove key to stop the warning. 2. Park Lamp ‘ON’ Reminder While leaving the vehicle, if you forget to turn ‘OFF’ the headlamps, buzzer will sound. Switch ‘OFF’ lamps to stop the warning sound. Do not forget to turn ‘OFF’ your lamps as it may drain the ve- hicle battery. 3. Park Brake ‘ON’ Reminder If park brake is applied and vehicle is driven, Telltale lamp will turn ‘ON’ and buzzer will provide audio warning contin- uously. Disengage the park brake to stop audio warning. 4. Reverse Gear Reminder If reverse gear is engaged, the buzzer sound will alert you. 90 5. Driver Seat Belt Reminder If seatbelt is not fastened and vehicle goes above 15 kmph, then final audio warning will go on for 90 seconds. Seat belt tell-tale lamp will remain continu- ously ON when audio alarm is active. NOTE

90 seconds. Seat belt tell-tale lamp will remain continu- ously ON when audio alarm is active. NOTE Fasten the seatbelt to stop audio warning. 6. Front Passenger Seat Belt Re- minder If front passenger has not fastened seat- belt and if vehicle speed goes above 15 kmph, then final audio warning will go on for 90 seconds. Seat belt tell-tale lamp will remain continuously ON when audio alarm is active. NOTE Fasten the seatbelt to stop audio warning. 7. ESCL Chime If electronic steering column lock gets in- advertently engaged, this chimes sounds and informs user to rotate steer- ing wheel. 8. Drive Mode Chime If you changes drive modes from city to eco or eco to sports one time drive mode chime sounds. 9. DEF System Chimes If DEF Level or DEF Quality or SCR Fault becomes critical low then continuous pe- riodic chime will sound. 10. AT Chimes e Whenever Driver try to switch off igni- tion while gear lever not in Park posi- tion then single chime will sound to remind driver to move gear

while gear lever not in Park posi- tion then single chime will sound to remind driver to move gear level to Park position and then switch off ig- nition. e Whenever Gear level not in Neutral or Park position & if driver tries to start the vehicle then single chime will be sound to remind driver to take gear level in Park or Neutral position and then start the vehicle.  Combi-Switch (RH Stalk) 2. Left Turn Signal - Move the lever fully upward. Right Turn Signal - Move the lever fully downward. NOTE 3. When the turn is completed, the signal will cancel and the lever will return to its normal position. High Beam - Move the lever forward to select the high beam function. Pull the lever back to normal for low beam. High Beam Flash (spring return) To flash the high beam, pull the lever towards you from the normal posi- tion. It will return to its normal posi- tion when you release it. Headlamp Rotary Switch OFF Position All lamps will remain ‘OFF’. Rotate stalk to turn ‘ON’ the Park- ing

Rotary Switch OFF Position All lamps will remain ‘OFF’. Rotate stalk to turn ‘ON’ the Park- ing lamps. Parking Lamp Day Time Running lamps (DRL) (if available) Day time running lamp are used to in- crease the visibility of the vehicle to oth- ers drivers during daytime. DASHBOARD AND FEATURES 1. Toactivate and deactivate DRL, keep the ignition switch in ‘ON’ position and switch ON-OFF parking lamp twice within approximately three sec. 2. Activation and deactivation of DRL can be done by DRL soft switch which is available on head unit dis- play. iv. Low Beam Rotate stalk to turn r Ez D | Beam function. v. Auto Light > Aw. The headlights will be automati- cally switched ON depending on ambient light conditions (while en- tering a tunnel or when it is twi- light). WY 6. Lane Change Signal To signal a lane change, move the lever slightly up or down to the point where the turn signal light begins to flash, but the lever does not latch. The turn signal will flash 6 times automatically. 91

to flash, but the lever does not latch. The turn signal will flash 6 times automatically. 91  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES 7. Head Lamp Switch leveling Rotary Inner rotary switch on right hand stalk is provided for head lamp leveling. With the inner rotary switch, Head lamp leveling can be done with head lamp in Low Beam and in ‘ON’ position. Select cor- rect position before start of trip when the vehicle is stationary. Depending on the number of passengers and luggage in the vehicle headlamp focus may change. This can be adjusted by rotating the knob to one of the 3 level positions. 92 Combi-Switch (LH Stalk) 0) ‘OFF’ Position The wiper is switched ‘OFF’. 1) Intermittent Wipe Push the stalk upwards to op- erate intermittent wipe. Inner rotary switch on left hand stalk is provided for intermittent front wiper delay. The switch has 5 delay tim- ers. 2) Slow Wipe Push the stalk towards position (2) for continuous slow wipe. 3) Fast Wipe Push the stalk towards position (3) for continuous fast

(2) for continuous slow wipe. 3) Fast Wipe Push the stalk towards position (3) for continuous fast wipe. Pull the stalk downwards and hold it for continuous wipe, the wiper continuously wipes across the windshield at low speed till the stalk is released. 5) Front Windshield Washer to spray the washer fluid | | on the windshield. PULL e The windshield wipers operate for 3 cycles after the lever is released and 1 more cycle after 5 seconds. 4) Flick Wipe (spring re- turn) e Pull the lever little longer,  Auto Front Wipe (if available) If your vehicle is fitted with rain and light sensor, the wipers will automatically wipe the windscreen, if it senses rainfall. Make sure that the wiper stalk is in Auto position. NOTE When you crank the engine, the supply to washer motor is momen- tarily cut off. 6) Rear Wash and Wipe (if available) Rear Windshield / Wiper and Washer Turn the rotary knob clockwise and release to operate rear windshield wash and wipe. The wind- shield wipers operate for 3

and release to operate rear windshield wash and wipe. The wind- shield wipers operate for 3 cycles. DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Turn the rotary knob counter | Ga | clockwise such that it aligns its positions with arrow mark to operate rear wind- shield wiper continuously. NOTE Rear wiper will not work as long as tailgate is open. Rear Wipe Rear Windshield / Washer Switch and Wiper Turn the rotary knob counter clockwise such that it aligns cal its positions with arrow mark and hold it to operate rear windshield wash and wipe function. It will return to ‘Rear wipe’ position as soon as it re- leased and continue to wipe. 93  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES WARNING If you operate wash and wipe func- tion for more than 15 seconds the controller cuts off the supply to the washer motors to avoid overheat- ing. Rain / Light Sensor (if available) Rain & light sensor is integrated sensor & mounted on front windshield glass to sense rain & light. As per the input from sensor, the wipe and light function will

glass to sense rain & light. As per the input from sensor, the wipe and light function will work automati- cally. 94 Fascia Switches Fascia switches are provided on the cen- ter console below HVAC control panel. 1. Rear fog lamp switch (if available) Front fog lamp switch(if available) Hazard warning switch Economy mode switch (if available) a F YN Sports mode switch (if available)  Steering Wheel Switches (LHS) (if available) 1. Volume Eq Ea Press above switch to increase or de- crease volume of music system / radio. 2. Seek Forward/Back- ward Press above switch to change radio channels. 3. Phone receive / PTT (Push to Talk) Press above switch to accept incoming call when a cell phone is connected via Bluetooth. Voice Recognition To start, long press the voice activation button provided on the steering wheel. The system mutes/ pauses the currently played audio and you will hear a beep sound to indicate the activation of the voice recognition feature. The system also display the icon

sound to indicate the activation of the voice recognition feature. The system also display the icon on the top right cor- ner of the screen to indicate activation of voice recognition. NOTE The system will start recognizing your voice command only after the beep. So, speak your command only after you hear the voice acti- vation beep. DASHBOARD AND FEATURES 4. Source xh Press above switch to select ee the required source in the infotain- ment system i.e. USB, AUX, AM, FM and Bluetooth. 5. Mute / Phone Reject Press above switch to reject or hang up a phone call. It is also used to mute the volume of music system / radio. NOTE For more information of steering wheel switches refer infotainment manual. ((Refer link -http://service.tatamo- tors.com/content/owners-manual )if available) 95  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Steering Wheel Switches (RHS) (if available) 1. Instrumentation Controls(IC) i. Instrumentation Scroll Up Controls Press above switch to scroll up on In- strument Cluster display.

Instrumentation Scroll Up Controls Press above switch to scroll up on In- strument Cluster display. ii. Instrumentation Controls Scroll Down Press above switch to scroll down on Instrument Cluster display. 96 2. OK/ Select & Long Press for Setting Press above switch to select the op- tion and also press long (approx. 3) to go directly to Instrument cluster settings. 3. Cruise Resetting/Set- ting Speed _ Increas- ing/Decreasing Switch e Press the cruise control master switch on steering wheel. e Accelerate the vehicle to the de- sired speed. e Press the ‘SET’ button on steering wheel switch to set the desired cruise speed. The cruise control in- dicator on instrument cluster will turn ‘ON’. e Remove your foot from the acceler- ator pedal. Once Cruise control is activated the ve- hicle automatically maintains the stored speed. Changing the Set Cruise Speed The set cruise speed can be adjusted (i.e. increased or decreased) using ‘+’ (to increase) or ‘-’ (to decrease) switches on steering

(i.e. increased or decreased) using ‘+’ (to increase) or ‘-’ (to decrease) switches on steering wheel. The speed increases and decreases on a single press. The changed speed will be shown on the speedometer. Keeping the switch pressed increases or decreases the speed continuously till the switch is re- leased. The set speed can also be in- creased by pressing the accelerator pe- dal till the desired speed is achieved and then pressing the ‘SET’ button. The set speed can also be decreased by press- ing the brake pedal (The cruise indicator will turn OFF) and slowing down to de- sired speed and then pressing the ‘SET’ button (The cruise control indicator will turn ‘ON’ again).  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Mic (if available) Infotainment System Display (if available) 4. Cruise Control Master BR Switch Cruise speed can be re- sumed only if cruise control is deac- tivated by depressing Brake Pedal. To resume the previously set cruise speed, accelerate the vehicle to a speed above approx. 32

To resume the previously set cruise speed, accelerate the vehicle to a speed above approx. 32 kmph and press reset (‘RES’) switch. 5. Cruise Control Deac- § tivating Switch oe) % There are several ways to deactivate cruise control: . Mics are provided on roof near the roof e Applying brake / clutch. amp. e Press deactivation switch on Steer- ing Wheel For more information, refer info- e Activation of ESP/ TCS system. tainment manual. ((Refer link -http://service.tatamo- tors.com/content/owners-manual Jif available) 97  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Speakers & Tweeter (if available) USB/AUX Port (if available) Tweeter Speaker Connect your portable digital music play- Speakers and tweeters are provided on ers, pen drives etc. to this socket for models with infotainment system. Provi- playing music tracks through the vehi- sions are given for music system and cles music system. speakers on versions without infotain- ment system. 98  Smart Charger (if available) It is available between the front

without infotain- ment system. 98  Smart Charger (if available) It is available between the front passen- ger seats below the rear stowage area for second row passengers. It is used to charge the mobile phone, Power Bank etc. Power Socket Power socket is available inside the cooled storage box on the center con- sole. The power socket will work when the ig- nition switch is in the “ACC” or “ON” po- sition. This socket can be used to pro- vide 12V (10A) power for electrical ac- cessories. DASHBOARD AND FEATURES NOTE Use of inappropriate electrical ac- cessories can cause damage to your vehicle’s electrical system. Make sure that any electrical ac- cessories you use are designed to plug into this type of socket and rating. 99  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Antenna (if available) Shark Fin Antenna (if available) Roof Grab Handle (if available) <u Antenna is located on the roof. Turn an- — shark fin antenna is provided on the Grab handles are installed on the roof tenna anticlockwise to remove

fin antenna is provided on the Grab handles are installed on the roof tenna anticlockwise to remove from ve- roof at rear end. for all seats except for the driver’s seat. hicle, if required. These help the passengers to position themselves comfortably during the jour- ney. 100  Front Fog Lamps (if available) Front fog lamp is located on front bumper. When visibility is poor due to fog, snow or rain, use the fog lamps to improve visibility as well as making it easier for other road users to see you. For switching ‘ON’ the Fog lamps, either the Head Lamp or Parking lamp must be ‘ON’. Operate the front fog lamp switch pro- vided on fascia to ‘ON’ or ‘OFF’ the fog lamp. An indicator on the switch will be illumi- nated when the front fog light is ‘ON’. Cornering Feature: For front fog lamp cornering feature the Head Lamp must be ‘ON’. As you turn steering wheel to left or right, the corresponding fog lamp will automat- ically get ‘ON’. DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Rear Fog Lamps (if available)

fog lamp will automat- ically get ‘ON’. DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Rear Fog Lamps (if available) Rear Fog Lamp is provided on rear bumper to improved visibility in ad- verse weather conditions to vehicles be- hind you. faecier For switching ‘ON’ the rear fog lamps, front fog lamp must be ‘ON’. Operate the rear fog lamp switch pro- vided on fascia to ‘ON’ or ‘OFF’ the fog lamp. An indicator on the switch will be illumi- nated when the rear fog light is ‘ON’. 101  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Puddle / Ajar Lamp is provided on driver, front passenger & rear doors trim. It will be ON only when particular door is in open condition. 102 Roof Lamp Interior roof lighting lamp is provided on the roof with inbuilt switch. Front Roof lamp Option 1 1. Spot / Reading Lamp for Front passenger side 2. OFF 3. DOOR 4. ON 5. Spot / Reading Lamp for Driver side Option 2  The switches has below functions: 1. Spot / Reading Lamp for Front passenger side The front row interior lamp has separate switches to operate

Reading Lamp for Front passenger side The front row interior lamp has separate switches to operate the spot / reading lamp for Front passenger side. the lamp turns ‘ON’ with | dimming when either of the doors are opened. When the last door is closed, the lamp will turn ‘OFF’ with dimming. This helps settling in the seat and inserting the key in the ignition switch. When the key is turned to the ‘IGN’ position, the lamp goes ‘OFF’ immediately. 2. OFF - In this position, the lamp will remain ‘OFF’. 3. DOOR - In this position, 4. ON - The lamp will turn ‘ON’ as long as the switch is in this position. a} fe Vain 5. Spot / Reading Lamp for Driver side The front row interior lamp SX has separate switches to NX operate the spot / reading lamp for Driver side. Side Reading Lamps (if available) DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Side reading lamps (applicable for var- iants with Sunroof) are provided above second row seat passenger doors. The lamps will turn ‘ON’ with dimming when either of the door is

second row seat passenger doors. The lamps will turn ‘ON’ with dimming when either of the door is open. When the all doors are closed and auto lock mode is active, the lamps will turn ‘OFF’ with dimming. This helps settling in the seat. Inbuilt switches are also provided on both lamp to operate (Switch ‘ON’ or ‘OFF’) the lamps independently when required during journey. 103  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Boot Lamp Side Indicator Lamp on ORVM Boot lamp is available in the rear lug- __ |t iS Provided on outer part of ORVM. gage compartment to light up the lug- —_{t will turn ON when the turn signal in- gage area. dicator switch is ON and Hazard Warn- Boot lamp is without switch type. It will ing indicator switch is ON. be ON only when tailgate is open. 104 Front Lamp . Position / DRL /Turn indicator lamp (if available) . High beam lamp . Front fog lamp (if available) . Low beam lamp  Lamp Condensation / Fogging Condition Condensation is a natural phenome- non in Lamp. This occurs mainly be-

/ Fogging Condition Condensation is a natural phenome- non in Lamp. This occurs mainly be- cause of atmospheric condi- tion/weather change. During normal condensation, thin film of mist is visi- ble on the inside surface of the exterior lens. Generally, this condition is con- sidered normal and can be eliminated by turning on the headlamp with engine running or during normal driving condi- tions. NOTE e Headlamp fogging / condensa- tion is natural occurrence and there is no need to replace the unit to resolve the issue. e High-pressure washer jet direct on vent system of lamp are not recommended, there might be possibility of water ingress caus- ing heavy fogging. Tail Lamp 1. 2. 3. 4. Turn indicator Reverse lamp Stop lamp Parking lamp DASHBOARD AND FEATURES 105  106  STOWAGE AREAS Glove Box ii) Glove Box Illumination iii) Stowage Detail i) Opening and Closing The glove box lamp illuminates when the — Following items can be stowage in glove glove box is opened. box. To Open - Pull the

when the — Following items can be stowage in glove glove box is opened. box. To Open - Pull the lever to open the glove box flap. NOTE 1. Owner’s manual and other vehicle d t, To Close - Lift glove box flap until it en- Make sure that glove box flap is eeumen gages. closed while driving. 2. First aid kit, Visiting card, Pen, Re- ceipts etc. 107  STOWAGE AREAS iv) Cooling Facility (if available) Goggle Holder (if available) Utility Pockets on Front Doors On selected models cooling facility is | Goggle holder is provided near the roof _—_ Utility pockets are provided on front provided below driver foldable arm rest. lamp. doors and it can be used to keep follow- It cools only when the A/C is ON. Close ing items. the vent by rotating the knob, whenever cooling is not required. 1. Magazine/ paper 2. Umbrella holder 3. Water bottle NOTE Remove the water from umbrella and fold it properly before storing it in umbrella holder. 108  STOWAGE AREAS Utility Pockets on Rear Doors Mobile / Wallet

storing it in umbrella holder. 108  STOWAGE AREAS Utility Pockets on Rear Doors Mobile / Wallet Stowage Cup Holder for Front Passenger Utility pockets are provided on rear Place for keeping wallet / mobile is pro- | Space for cup holder are provided in cen- doors and it can be used to keep follow- _ vided in front of Gear shifter lever. tre console. ing items. 1. Mobile holder 2. Magazines/books 3. Water bottles etc. 109  STOWAGE AREAS Stowage for Rear Passenger (if available) Stowage for rear passenger is provided on rear side of floor console between the front passenger seats. It can be used to keep mobile charger, mobile and small items like wallet, Power bank etc. 110 Stowage below Arm Rest Foldable Arm Rest (if available) Stowage below front arm rest with chiller | A foldable arm rest has been provided in is provided on center console between __ the rear seat. It also has two cup holders, the front passenger seats. Itcan be used — which can be accessed by opening the to keep

holders, the front passenger seats. Itcan be used — which can be accessed by opening the to keep small items. cover. When not required, fold the arm- rest back into the seat. NOTE e Remove all items and cups be- fore folding the cup holders. e Use cups, containers, bottles of right size and which have lids. The content could otherwise spill.  Tailgate Compartment Store the luggage in tailgate compart- ment. You can keep Suitcase bag etc. Luggage cover is designed only for hid- ing the luggage compartment. WARNING Distribute the items of luggage as evenly as possible. Position heavy loads as far for- wards as possible and as low down in the trunk as possible. Never allow occupants to travel in the luggage compartment. Do not place anything on luggage cover as it could obstruct driver’s rear view. Also in case of an acci- dent or sudden braking, it could cause an injury to occupants. The luggage cover can be lifted. STOWAGE AREAS Stowage below Load Floor Store the suitable luggage below

cover can be lifted. STOWAGE AREAS Stowage below Load Floor Store the suitable luggage below the load floor in tailgate compartment. It can be used to keep small items. 111  STOWAGE AREAS Hooks Front Seat Back Pockets (if available) i) Coat Hanger (if available) Coat hanger is provided for rear passen- ger near grab handle. WARNING 112 The coat hook cannot restrain heavy objects or items. Do not hang objects on coat hooks which can obstruct the curtain airbag deployment during impact. e Never hang hard, sharp-edged or fragile objects on the coat hook. ii) Hooks in Luggage Compartment (if available) These hooks are provided on both sides in luggage compartment for hanging small carry bags carrying up to 3 kg weight only. NOTE Do not use these hooks for secur- ing luggage like using nets etc. Rear pockets are provided behind the front seats for keeping small magazines /Notebook etc.  CLIMATE CONTROL The Climate Control regulates the temperature inside the vehicle and filter the dust

CONTROL The Climate Control regulates the temperature inside the vehicle and filter the dust particles in cabin based on the user set temperature settings. Air Distribution- The air is distributed through the vents in the passenger compartment as shown below: 113  CLIMATE CONTROL Air Vents Centre Vent Centre air vents are provided on dash- board. Air flow and its direction can be adjusted with the help of knob provided on respective vent. Centre Air Vents (Front) 114 Side Air Vents (Front) Side Vent for Rear Passenger (if available) Side air vents are provided on both side of B pillar for rear passenger. Air flow and its direction can be adjusted with the help of knob provided on re- spective vent. Side Air Vents (Rear)  1. HVAC Controls (if available) moo p > Temperature Control Fresh / Recirculation air mode Blower Speed Control AC ON/OFF Switch Air Distribution Control A. Temperature Control Low HIGH The temperature control knob allows you to adjust the temperature. The tempera-

Control Low HIGH The temperature control knob allows you to adjust the temperature. The tempera- ture can be increased by rotating the knob towards the red segment (clock- wise) and decreased by rotating it to- wards the blue segment (anti-clockwise). CLIMATE CONTROL B. Fresh / Recirculation Air Mode Press the switch to activate / deactivate air recirculation mode. Press to ‘ON’ or ‘OFF’ Recirculation mode: (Indicator light ‘ON’) Air in the passenger compartment recir- culates. No fresh air enters the compart- ment. Always use when: e Driving on a dusty road or through tunnel. e On signals or slow traffic to avoid traffic pollution. e Maximum cooling is required. 115  CLIMATE CONTROL Fresh Air Mode: (Indicator light ‘OFF’) Fresh air is drawn into the vehicle. Always use when: e Discomfort is felt or windows are fogging up. e Using SY or GP air flow modes during demist / defrost. e Using normal heating mode. 116 C. Blower Speed Control OFF This is to turn ‘ON’ the blower and select

normal heating mode. 116 C. Blower Speed Control OFF This is to turn ‘ON’ the blower and select desired blower speed. D. AC ON/OFF Press the switch to activate / deactivate the AC. The indicator lamp in the button will light up when climate control is acti- vated. NOTE The AC can be switched ‘ON’ only if the blower is ‘ON’ and engine is running. When AC is switched ‘ON’, engine idling RPM increases marginally to adjust the AC compressor load. When desired temperature at evapora- tor is achieved Ac compressor will self displace optimum refrigerant flow.  Condensation may drip from the underside of the vehicle when it is in cooling mode. Traces of wa- ter on the ground are normal and are not a sign of leakage or malfunction. Ventilate the vehicle for a brief period during warm weather. This will speed up the cooling process and the desired vehicle interior temperature will be reached quickly. Never cover the air vents or air intake grilles in the vehicle inte- rior. If the AC is not

Never cover the air vents or air intake grilles in the vehicle inte- rior. If the AC is not used for a long period, such as during winter, it may not give the best perfor- mance when you start using it again. Operate the AC at least once a month to maintain opti- mum performance. While starting the vehicle itself after long duration (more than 15 days), following procedure needs to be followed to meet AC performance. - Start the vehicle with AC & Blower in OFF condition in idling for 2~3 minutes. - Then switch ON the AC & Blower and run it for another 2~3 minutes in idling for proper circulation of refriger- ant & oil to lubricate the inter- nal parts of AC system. Rear blower will be effective af- ter 5-10 min of front HVAC run- ning (after cabin cooling). CLIMATE CONTROL E. Air Distribution Control This is to select the air distribution pat- tern as described in the table. of ter and side air vents Directs air through the cen- = ¢@ | Directs air through the cen- v rt ter, side and

side air vents Directs air through the cen- = ¢@ | Directs air through the cen- v rt ter, side and foot well vents @ | Directs air through the foot ap well air vents Directs air through the de- a 2 roster & foot well vents or (Default fresh air mode) HP air mode) Directs air through the de- roster vents (Default fresh = the compartment. Directs fresh air enters in 117  CLIMATE CONTROL Recommended basic settings of the control elements of air conditioning system for the respective operating modes. These may vary depending on individual requirements and weather conditions. Normal heating Quick heating Air Flow Direction @ Blower Speed o Air Temperature eC Fresh / Recircula- tion air mode AC ON/OFF 4 L Pp oF or or ort 2 <a L 2nd or 3rd To MAX speed and then 2" or 30 Desired temp. To the extreme right up to the stop Fresh air mode. Briefly switch ON to Fresh air mode then Recirculation Switched OFF Switched OFF Recirculation Normal Cooling oA 1% to 34 Desired temperature mode Switched ON

OFF Switched OFF Recirculation Normal Cooling oA 1% to 34 Desired temperature mode Switched ON Quick Cooling of erin 2 toto the stop left Reetroulation Switched ON Demisting Gr) 2"4 or 314 Desired temperature iDetauit) mode Ootional). Defrosting Gy To MAX speed Desired temperature iDetauit) mode Ostona) 118  2. Fully Automatic Temperature Control (FATC) (if available) FATC system controls the inside temper- ature of the vehicle automatically and provides maximum passenger conven- ience regardless of outside weather con- ditions. Rear window demister switch Maximum defrost switch Air distribution (mode) switch FeNS Blower speed control down switch . Blower speed control up switch . Temperature control knob . Fresh air / recirculation switch AC compressor ‘ON / OFF’ switch 5 6 7. Auto ‘ON’ selection switch 8 9. 10. OFF mode switch Display Unit O135PM it OFF a @G 6 Aedrolé Auto Apple CarPay ado uss 2°... a 6 ws FATC display is shown on infotainment display screen. FATC functions can be

ado uss 2°... a 6 ws FATC display is shown on infotainment display screen. FATC functions can be controlled using both the FATC control panel and the touch screen display. Whenever the user presses any switch or turns the rotary knob, then the display unit will show the relevant Climate Infor- mation. CLIMATE CONTROL Also, when the display is not in climate mode then climate information will be displayed on the all-time display provide on the bottom bar. 1. Rear Window Demister Switch This switch operates rear win- dow demister. The system will be deactivated after 15 min of continuous operation. 2. Maximum Defrost Switch i. This switch directs the main airflow towards windscreen for faster de- Kr) frosting. (It also overrides any mode selection you may have made.) ii. When you turn off the button, the sys- tem returns to its default setting. NOTE For your safety make sure you have a clear view through all the windows before driving. 119  CLIMATE CONTROL 3. Air Distribution (Mode)

clear view through all the windows before driving. 119  CLIMATE CONTROL 3. Air Distribution (Mode) Switch In AUTO mode, the FATC sys- tem will regulate the mode rid : automatically. However, user Joh override is possible with the use of MODE button to select the desire: airflow mode. Each time you press the MODE button, the display shows the mode selected. Directs air through the cen- ter and side air vents of >? Directs air through the cen- oY ri ter, side and foot well vents e Directs air through the foot ap well air vents Directs air through the de- el roster & foot well vents v (Default fresh air mode) Directs air through the de- roster vents (Default fresh HP air mode) 120 Down 5. Blower Speed Control Up Switch (High) Press the Blower Speed con- EI NO In ‘AUTO’ mode, the FATC system trol up button to increase the blower speed. will regulate the blower speed au- tomatically. 4. Blower Speed Control Switch (Low) Press the Blower Speed con- trol down button to decrease the blower

Speed Control Switch (Low) Press the Blower Speed con- trol down button to decrease the blower speed. 6. Temperature Control Knob Turning the temperature control knob clockwise increases the temperature of the air. The desired temperature will be increased by steps of 0.5°C. User can se- lect temperature range from 18°C to 30°C. Whereas the anticlockwise direc- tion decreases the temperature. When you set the temperature to its lower limit (Lo) or its upper limit (Hi), the system runs at full cooling or heating only. It doesn’t regulate the interior tem- perature. 7. Auto ON Selection Switch To put the automatic climate control in fully automatic mode: i. Press the ‘AUTO’ button. ii. Set the desired temperature by turn- ing temperature control knob. The display will show all the functions during ‘AUTO’ mode. iii, The system automatically selects the proper mix of conditioned and / or  heated air that will, as quickly as pos- sible, raise or lower the interior tem- perature to your

heated air that will, as quickly as pos- sible, raise or lower the interior tem- perature to your preference. When you set the temperature to its lower limit (Lo) or its upper limit (Hi), the system runs at full cooling or heating only. It does not regulate the interior temperature. Semi-automatic Operation You can manually select various func- tions of the climate control system when it is in fully automatic mode. All other features remain automatically con- trolled. Making any manual selection causes the word ‘AUTO’ in the display to go OFF and overridden setting is dis- played. System will remain in semiauto- matic mode till ‘AUTO’ is re-pressed. 8. Fresh Air / Recirculation Switch ‘ON’, air from the vehi- cle’s interior is sent switched ‘OFF’, air is brought in from outside of the vehicle (fresh mode). i. When the recirculation ay throughout the system. Whenever discomfort is felt, switch switch or LED is switched ii. When the recirculation switch is to fresh air mode. NOTE The

switch switch or LED is switched ii. When the recirculation switch is to fresh air mode. NOTE The outside air intakes for the cli- mate control systems are at the base of windscreen. Keep this area Clear from leaves and other debris. The system should be used with recircu- lation air mode for faster heat up and cool down, however keeping the system in recirculation mode, particularly with AC OFF, can cause the windows fog up. CLIMATE CONTROL NOTE When Reverse gear is selected, air intake may switch to recirculation mode if previously in fresh mode to prevent exhaust fumes from enter- ing in the vehicle. 9. AC ON/OFF Button Press the AC compressor ON/OFF button to turn the air conditioning ON or OFF. The AC icon will be activated on the display when the AC will be ON. 10. OFF Switch AIC Press the OFF button to switch OFF The system. OFF will be displayed on the info- tainment screen 121  CLIMATE CONTROL (6) (7) (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (8) (9) (10) Temperature | Auto Rear | Maximum Air

121  CLIMATE CONTROL (6) (7) (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (8) (9) (10) Temperature | Auto Rear | Maximum Air Blower | Blower | Fresh/air | ajc | OFF a demister defrost Distribution | Down Up Recir Button Culation »>e COB BBERBEE Normal Desired No No No No Desired | Desired No No OFF heating Temperature change change change change Speed Speed change change ; To the ex- Quick ; ‘ No ° Max heating on till OFF change OFF gp NA speed Fresh ON OFF Normal Desired No No No No change Desired | Desired No No OFF Cooling Temperature change change change 9 Speed Speed change change ; To the ex- - Quick ‘ No >? Max Recircu- Cooling ome till OFF change OFF ri NA Speed lation ON OFF . To the right up Demist- to the desired No ON No change | No change No No No No No ing temperature change change | change change change | change 122  CLIMATE CONTROL (6) Mm | «) (2) @ | # | 6 | @ | @ | qo Temperature Auto deter vexmum A Blower | Blower | Fresh/air AIC | OFF Distribution | Down | Up Recir Button Culation »>e ©

vexmum A Blower | Blower | Fresh/air AIC | OFF Distribution | Down | Up Recir Button Culation »>e © ©HHEFHEn4 To the right up Defrost- x No Max ing to the desired | OFF change ON Gy NA | speed | Fresh ON OFF temperature Panel OFF OFF No OFF OFF OFF OFF No OFF ON OFF change change 123  CLIMATE CONTROL Quick Cooling If your vehicle is parked under the sun, you can cool it down fast by following the steps given below: 1. Start the engine. 2. Turn on A/C by pressing the button. Make sure the temperature control is set to maximum cool. In case of FATC set temperature to ‘Low’ mode. 3. Set the blower to maximum speed 4. Open windows half, set air direction towards face and fresh air mode. 5. When the interior has cooled down to a more comfortable level, close windows and set the controls as re- quired in normal cooling, with recir- culation mode ON. 124 FATC Sensors: HVAC system is fitted with three sensors 2. Outside Ambient Temperature (OAT) Sensor It is located under the front bumper

with three sensors 2. Outside Ambient Temperature (OAT) Sensor It is located under the front bumper grill. Asolar sensor is on top of the dashboard NOTE at the middle of defroster grill. e Do not cover or spill any liquid on sensors. e Do not cover sensor, this may cause the sensor to malfunc- tion. This may lead to FATC not functioning to desired level. 1. Solar Sensor 3. In-car Sensor on Control Panel  Pre Driving Checks Make sure that Windshield, windows, mirrors, lights, and reflectors are clean and unob- structed. Tools kit, jack & handle, warning tri- angle, owner’s manual, first aid kit and vehicle documents are available and stored at their locations. Never put any mat on top of the floor carpet near pedal region. All doors, engine bonnet and tail gate are securely closed and latched. All passengers are properly re- strained. All occupants travelling should always wear seat belts or suit- able CRS as applicable. Objects/luggage are secure properly against slipping or tipping.

or suit- able CRS as applicable. Objects/luggage are secure properly against slipping or tipping. Rear seat is securely latched. Sufficient fuel for the trip. Daily Check Tyres for abnormal wear, cracks or damage and embedded foreign ma- terial such as nails, stones, etc. Traces of fluid and oil below vehicle. NOTE Water dripping from the air condi- tioning system after use is normal. All lamps, wipers, wiper blades and horn for proper operation. All switches, gauges and tell tales are working properly. Adjust Seats, head restraints (if available) and steering wheel position. All the mirrors properly adjusted. STARTING AND DRIVING Weekly Check Engine oil level Coolant level Brake fluid level Windshield washer fluid level Battery electrolyte level Fuel level NOTE Tyre pressure to be measured at cold condition. Check tyre pressure and condi- tion after every 15 days includ- ing spare wheel. 125  STARTING AND DRIVING Driving Tips Fuel consumption, engine, transmission, brake and tyre

125  STARTING AND DRIVING Driving Tips Fuel consumption, engine, transmission, brake and tyre wear are mainly affected by below factors: Operating conditions of your vehicle Your personal driving style Operating Conditions Avoid frequent start and stop as these increase fuel consumptions. Always make sure that the tyre pres- sures are correct. Do not carry any unnecessary weight. Regularly, service your vehicle and adhere to the recommended service maintenance schedule. 126 Personal Driving Style Do not press the accelerator pedal while starting the engine. Do not warm up the engine when the vehicle is stationary. Always adapt your driving style to suit the prevailing road, weather condi- tions, and maintain a safe distance from the vehicle in front. Drive care- fully. Avoid frequent, sudden acceleration and braking. Select appropriate gear according to varying speeds and load conditions. NOTE Do not rest your foot on the clutch pedal while driving. Switch ‘OFF’ the engine in

NOTE Do not rest your foot on the clutch pedal while driving. Switch ‘OFF’ the engine in stationary traffic or at signals. Keep an eye on the vehicle's fuel con- sumption. Driving safety systems are merely aids designed to assist driving. You are responsible for the distance to the vehicle in front, for vehicle speed and anticipating braking in good time. You could lose control of your vehi- cle if you try to adjust the driver's seat, head restraint, mirror, steer- ing wheel and fasten the seat belt while driving. There is a risk of an accident.  Recommended Fuel Economy Speeds (MT only) Gear Speed (km/h) 1 15 30 50 70 90 O};an;R|w]n 105 Good Driving Practices Slow down before shifting to a lower gear. This will help avoiding revving of the engine causing damage (for MT). Avoid frequent brake application which can cause overheating of brakes. Slow down the vehicle speed while travelling in cross winds. This gives much better control over the vehicle. Avoid high speed when cornering or

in cross winds. This gives much better control over the vehicle. Avoid high speed when cornering or turning. Press the clutch fully while shifting gears (for MT) Make sure that vehicle is completely stationary before you attempt to shift in reverse gear. Drive slowly on wet roads. You can get extra braking from the engine by shifting to a lower gear. This can help you to maintain a safe speed and prevent your brakes from overheating specially while going down a hill. Tips for Obtaining Better Fuel Effi- ciency Always maintain the specified tyre pressure during fuel top-ups and also before a long trip. Vehicle running with low tyre pressure will consume more fuel than the one running with specified tyre pressure. STARTING AND DRIVING Keep the vehicle clean. Get rid of the not in use luggage/stuff lying in the boot etc. Regularly inspect your vehicle for any leakages, worn out wires, rat bites etc. Always follow periodic & regular ser- vice schedule of the vehicle. Drive smart and

rat bites etc. Always follow periodic & regular ser- vice schedule of the vehicle. Drive smart and smooth in an antici- patory manner. Select driving mode to suit your style. Do not accelerate excessively when you are in lower gears (1* or 2"). Be gentle on the accelerator when you are in traffic. In lower gear, opening more throttle will shoot the engine RPM keeping the vehicle still at lower speeds which indirectly implies less distance with more fuel. Be in the maximum possible higher gear at a given speed. This reduces the engine operating speeds which means the engine is running at lower rpm (Revolutions per Minute) for the 127  STARTING AND DRIVING same vehicle speed. Lesser the num- ber of engine revolution lesser the fuel burned. e Avoid harsh braking. e Maintain healthy driving habits & while decelerating, do coasting in gear and not in neutral or with clutch pedal pressed. e Consider using the car AC when you really require. Consider using lower blower speeds rather than

e Consider using the car AC when you really require. Consider using lower blower speeds rather than higher for cooling as at higher blower speeds it consumes more electric power which is ultimately drawn from engine by burning fuel. e Avoid unnecessary extra electrical loading on the car. e Stop the engine wisely at traffic sig- nals. Switch ‘OFF’ the engine at the traffic signal only if the stoppage time is high (typically more than 30 sec). e While driving on highways, drive with windows closed. The more you open 128 the windows the higher will be the re- sistance to the vehicle at higher speeds which will reduce the fuel ef- ficiency. e Do not over speed; follow the speed limits. More the speed, higher the ex- ternal resistance on the vehicle which will finally result into unneces- sary consumption of fuel. Running-in Period The more you look after the engine when it is new, the more satisfied you will be with its performance in the future. Avoid rapid acceleration and prolonged

satisfied you will be with its performance in the future. Avoid rapid acceleration and prolonged high speed running of the engine for the first 2,000 km. Do not exceed the following road speeds during running in period. Gear Speed(km/h) 1 15 30 45 60 80 100 QD) an|\R}]w]rm Avoid heavy loads, e.g. driving at ful throttle, during this period. Change gears judiciously. While cruising, brief full-throttle acceler- ation within the limits of local traffic laws contributes to a good break-in. Wide- opened throttle acceleration can be det- rimental and should be avoided. NOTE Avoid excessive rewing up of en- gine rpm. Do not keep engine at idling for long duration.  Seat Adjustments Option | Front Seat Adjustments Following seat adjustments can be car- ried out manually. 1. Backrest Angle 2. Seat Height Adjustment (if available) 3. Seat forward / rearward adjustment Do not adjust the driver's seat while driving. Adjusting the seat while driving could cause the driver to lose control of the

seat while driving. Adjusting the seat while driving could cause the driver to lose control of the vehicle. 1. Seat Backrest Angle Adjustment To change the seat back rest angle, lean forward slightly and pull up the lever (1). Adjust seat backrest until it reaches de- sired comfortable position. Make sure that lever returns to its original position and seat is securely latched. NOTE Adjust the seat backrest until your arms are slightly angled when holding the steering wheel. Never travel in a moving vehicle with the seat backrest in an exces- sively reclined position as this can be dangerous. You could slide un- der the seat belt in a collision. STARTING AND DRIVING 2. Seat Height Adjustment (if available) To raise the seat, pull and continue pumping the lever (2) in the upward di- rection until the seat is at the desired height. To lower the seat, pump the lever down- ward until the seat is at desired height. 3. Seat Forward / Rearward Adjust- ment Lift lever (3) and slide the seat

is at desired height. 3. Seat Forward / Rearward Adjust- ment Lift lever (3) and slide the seat forwards or rearwards. Release lever and make sure that seat is securely latched. NOTE Adjust the driver seat position in such a way that the driver will be able to operate the control pedals comfortably. 129  STARTING AND DRIVING Option Il Power Seat Adjustment Following seat adjustments can be car- ried out manually. 1. Backrest Angle 2. Seat Height Adjustment 3. Seat forward / rearward adjustment 130 Do not travel in a moving vehicle with the seat backrest in an exces- sively reclined position as this can be dangerous. You could slide un- der the seat belt in a collision. 1. Backrest Angle To adjust the seat back forward, operate control (1) in forward direction slightly until the seat is at desired comfortable position. Release the control once seat reaches desired position. To adjust the seat back rearward, oper- ate control (1) in rearward direction slightly until the seat is at

the seat back rearward, oper- ate control (1) in rearward direction slightly until the seat is at desired com- fortable position. Release the control once seat reaches desired position. 2. Seat Height Adjustment To raise the seat, operate control (2) up- ward slightly until the seat is at desired comfortable position. Release the con- trol once seat reaches desired position. To lower the seat, operate control (2) downward slightly until the seat is at de- sired comfortable position. Release the control once seat reaches desired posi- tion. 3. Seat Forward / Rearward Adjust- ment To adjust the seat position forward, op- erate control (3) in forward direction slightly until the seat is at desired com- fortable position. Release the control once seat reaches desired position. To adjust the seat position rearward, op- erate control (3) in rearward direction slightly until the seat is at desired com- fortable position. Release the control once seat reaches desired position.  Lumbar Support

com- fortable position. Release the control once seat reaches desired position.  Lumbar Support (if available) Continuous (Multiple adjusting position) umbar support is provided on driver and ront passenger seat to give you comfort while driving. It is adjusted by the lever provided on the side of the seat backrest. Adjustable Head Restraint Front Seat Adjust the head restraint so that it is as close to the head as possible and the center of the head restraint supports the back of the head at eye level. This will reduce the potential for injury to the head and neck in the event of an acci- dent or similar situation. STARTING AND DRIVING 9°99 Correctly adjusted | Incorrectly adjusted _| Incorrectly adjusted WARNING Do not drive the vehicle without the seat head restraints. Head re- straints are intended to help re- duce injuries during an accident. 131  STARTING AND DRIVING Rear Seat Folding e Press the backrest release knob to Fold the backrest seat forward. Move fold the backrest

Folding e Press the backrest release knob to Fold the backrest seat forward. Move fold the backrest seat forward. the driver and front passenger seat forward if necessary. Option 1 60:40 % Split Seat You can increase the luggage capacity by folding the respective rear seats as required. To fold the seat: e Follow the same procedure for other rear seat. 132  STARTING AND DRIVING e Press the backrest release knob to e Foldthe backrest seat forward.Move Option 2 fold the backrest seat forward. the driver and front passenger seat i it forward if necessary. Rear Seat Folding (Complete Seat 100%) To fold the seat: e Simultaneously, press the backrest release knobs provided on both side. e Ensure that ‘foldable arm rest’ is close before seat folding. e Fold both seats if required. 133  WARNING Rear View Mirrors e You should always engage the Inside Rear View Mirror (IRVM) rear seat back rest if you do not need the through loading fea- (if available) ture. To adjust the mirror move the mirror

you do not need the through loading fea- (if available) ture. To adjust the mirror move the mirror up, e lf the rear bench seat and sea move down or sideways to obtain the backrest are not engaged they best rear view. could fold forwards, e.g. when braking suddenly or in the even of an accident. - e The vehicle occupant would e Fold the backrest seat forward. Move thereby be pushed into the sea When driving at night, set the selector tab to select anti-glare mode (if availa- ble) to reduce glare from the headlights of vehicles behind you. the driver and front passenger seat belt by the rear bench seat or by forward if necessary. the seat backrest. The seat bel Tie m7 can no longer offer the intended level of protection and could even cause injuries. e Objects or loads in the trunk can- not be restrained by the sea backrest. There is an increased risk of injury. e Before every trip, make sure that the seat backrests and the rear bench seat/rear seat are en- gaged and securely latched.

sure that the seat backrests and the rear bench seat/rear seat are en- gaged and securely latched.  Use antiglare position only when necessary, as it reduces rear view clarity. Automatic Dimming IRVM (if available) 1. Photocell Sensors 2. ON/OFF button Automatic dimming rear view mirror au- tomatically controls the glare from the headlights of the car behind you in night time or low light driving conditions. Press ON/OFF button to turn ON the automatic dimming function. The LED indicator on the IRVM shows the active status of auto dimming function. The auto dimming IRVM is defaults to the ON position whenever the ignition switch is turned ON and it is switched OFF whenever reverse gear is engaged. NOTE For proper operation, keep the photocell sensors clean and do not cover the area between the IRVM and the windshield. Outer Rear View Mirrors (ORVM) You can adjust the outer rear view mir- rors manually by joy stick or remotely by knob. Adjust the outside rear view mir- rors to desired

rors manually by joy stick or remotely by knob. Adjust the outside rear view mir- rors to desired position. STARTING AND DRIVING NOTE Objects visible in mirror are actu- ally closer than they appear. Al- ways make sure of the actual dis- tance from the road users travel- ing behind by glancing over your shoulder. 135  STARTING AND DRIVING Motorized Outer Rear View mirrors (if available) The switch to adjust the motorized mir- rors is located on the driver’s door. You can adjust the mirrors when the ignition switch is in the “ACC” or “ON” position. Mirror Folding To fold / unfold the ORVMs, keep the Se- lector switch in center position (i.e. nei- ther ‘L’ nor ‘R, position) and then toggle down. 136 NOTE When vehicle is locked, mirrors will be folded automatically. When is unlock mirrors will be unfolded au- tomatically. To Adjust the Mirrors 1. Move the mirror selection switch to L (for left side) and R (for right side) to select the mirror you wish to adjust. 2. Use the 4 positions of

side) and R (for right side) to select the mirror you wish to adjust. 2. Use the 4 positions of the knob to ad- just the rear view mirrors to required position. Rear View Mirrors with Joy Stick Knob (if available) You can adjust the outer rear view mir- rors manually by joy stick knob located in the driver and front passenger door panel. If required mirrors are folded manually.  Sun Visors . Mirror Flap 1 2. Vanity Mirror 3. Light for Vanity Mirror 1. Mirror Flap (if available) The sun visors can be pulled down to block the glare coming through the wind- shield. To block the glare from side windows: Pull down the sun visor and release it from retainer. Swing the sun visor to the side. 2. Vanity Mirror (if available) Vanity mirror is provided on the back of the front passenger side sun visor. 3. Light for Vanity Mirror (if available) It is provided beside the vanity mirror. Light glows ‘ON’ as soon as flap of vanity mirror is open. STARTING AND DRIVING 137  STARTING AND DRIVING

glows ‘ON’ as soon as flap of vanity mirror is open. STARTING AND DRIVING 137  STARTING AND DRIVING Steering Wheel Adjustment (if available) You can adjust the steering wheel posi- tion to suit your convenience. The release lever is located under the steering column. To Adjust the Steering Wheel 1. Adjust the seat to a comfortable po- sition. 2. Pull down release lever completely to unlock the steering column. 138 3. Adjust the steering wheel to the de- sired position by moving steering wheel in axial and radial direction (telescopic & tilt). 4. Push release lever up completely to lock the steering column. 5. Make sure that steering wheel is se- curely lock by checking up and down direction. NOTE When adjusting the steering wheel, make sure that: e You can operate control ped- als without any obstacles. e You can see all the displays in the instrument cluster clearly. e Before starting off, make sure that the steering wheel position is locked. e Never unlock or adjust the steer- ing

off, make sure that the steering wheel position is locked. e Never unlock or adjust the steer- ing wheel while the vehicle is in motion.  Steering Lock and Ignition Switch (if available) The ignition switch has the following four positions: LOCK - This is the normal parking posi- tion. Key from lock can be removed in this position only. “LOCK” position prevents normal use of the steering wheel after the key is re- moved. To release the steering lock, insert the key and turn it clockwise to one of the other positions. ACC - Accessories such as the infotain- ment system can be operated, but the engine remains ‘OFF’. Steering gets un- locked. ON - This is the normal operating posi- tion. All electrical systems are ‘ON’. START - Turn the key further clockwise to the START position, (spring loaded) to start the engine. As soon as the engine starts, release the ignition key, which re- turns to ON position. While cranking, all accessories will be momentarily ‘OFF’. Illuminated Key Ring (if

to ON position. While cranking, all accessories will be momentarily ‘OFF’. Illuminated Key Ring (if available) When the vehicle is unlocked, the illumi- nated key ring glows up. This helps to lo- cate ignition switch in the dark. NOTE The engine can only be started when the gearshift lever is in “N” position with the clutch pedal firmly pressed. STARTING AND DRIVING Starting and Stopping (without PEPS) Manual Transmission (MT) Starting the Engine Make sure that parking brake is en- gaged and vehicle is in neutral gear. Press the clutch pedal fully and crank the engine. Do not press the accelerator pedal while starting the engine. NOTE The Starter protection sys- tem fitted in this vehicle & does not allow you to crank SS the engine until you fully press the clutch pedal. Release the key as soon as the engine starts. Repeat if engine does not start. 139  STARTING AND DRIVING NOTE The Starter protection system switches off the starter when it is continuously cranked for more than 10

Starter protection system switches off the starter when it is continuously cranked for more than 10 secs. In such a case, get the key back to ‘OFF’ position & wait for 30 secs. The engine emits poisonous ex- haust gases such as carbon mon- oxide. Inhaling these exhaust gases leads to poisoning. There is a risk of fatal injury. Therefore, never leave the engine running in enclosed spaces without sufficient ventilation. NOTE After starting, run the engine in idle speed for at least 30 seconds. Do not press accelerated pedal while starting the engine to avoid damage to turbocharger. 140 Starting Off To start off, press the clutch pedal fully and shift into first gear. After releasing the parking brake, gradu- ally release the clutch and slowly press the accelerator. NOTE When shifting or starting off, do not race the engine. Racing the engine can shorten engine life and affect smooth shifting. Stopping the Engine Turn the key to ‘ACC’ position to switch off the engine. Before switching

Stopping the Engine Turn the key to ‘ACC’ position to switch off the engine. Before switching off the engine, run the engine in idle condition for at least 30 seconds and then switch off. This will allow the engine oil to lubri- cate the turbocharger, till its speed is fully reduced and also allow the unit to cool down. A quick burst on the accelerator before turning off the engine serves no practical purpose, it wastes fuel and can damage tur- bocharger. Do not switch off the engine when it is running at high speed. This will lead to premature turbo- charger bearing wear.  Gear Shifting and Driving The gearshift pattern is as shown on the gear lever knob. Gear shifting should al- ways be done with clutch pedal pressed. NOTE e Gear recommendation is dis- played when the clutch pedal is in fully released position. e /f “F” is displayed in DIS of in- strument cluster, it means ‘Fault’ condition. Contact a TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre. NOTE Press the clutch fully when gear

condition. Contact a TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre. NOTE Press the clutch fully when gear shifting. The reverse gear should be engaged only when the vehicle is stationary. Wait for 5 seconds after declutching to ensure smooth engagement of the reverse gear. Do not press clutch pedal while driving the vehicle or when sta- tionary on a slope. When vehicle is in ACC/IGN/RUN mode and user does any door state transition including tailgate and if PEPS does not detect smart key inside the vehicle when last door in- cluding tailgate is closed, then audio warning chime comes ON. STARTING AND DRIVING Reverse Gear For engaging reverse gear, lift the latch and keeping latch lifted, shift to reverse position. WARNING e Never run the vehicle out of gear and coast down a hill. This is ex- tremely hazardous. Always run the vehicle in gear. e Slow down before shifting to a lower gear. This will help avoid over-revving the engine, which can cause damage. 141  STARTING AND DRIVING e Be ensure

help avoid over-revving the engine, which can cause damage. 141  STARTING AND DRIVING e Be ensure the vehicle is com- pletely stopped before you put- ting into reverse gear. It may cause damaged to the transmis- sion. Braking Your vehicle has power-assisted brakes. The distance needed to bring the vehicle to a halt increases with the speed of the vehicle. Start applying brake anticipating the distance and slow down gradually. e Never use the brake pedal as a footrest. e If you rest your foot on the brake pedal while driving, the braking system can overheat. This in- creases the stopping distance and can even cause the braking system to fail. There is a risk of an accident. 142 e Never press the brake pedal and the accelerator pedal at the same time. If you have driven for a long time in heavy rain without braking, there may be a delayed reaction from the brakes when braking for the first time. This may also occur after the vehicle has been washed. Brake performance may become poor and

time. This may also occur after the vehicle has been washed. Brake performance may become poor and unpredictable if brakes are wet. After driving through water or washing the underside of the vehicle, test the brakes while driving at a slow speed to see if they have maintained their normal effectiveness. If the brakes are less ef- fective than normal, dry them by repeat- edly applying the brakes while driving slowly until the brakes have regained their normal effectiveness. Braking on downhill gradients On long and steep gradients, you must reduce the load on the brakes by shifting early to a lower gear. This allows you to take advantage of the engine braking ef- fect and helps avoid overheating and ex- cessive wear of the brakes. Automatic Transmission (if available) The Automatic transmission has 6 for- ward and one reverse gear. The individ- ual gears are select automatically, de- pending on position of gear shift lever. Starting Off To start off, switch ON ignition switch and

pending on position of gear shift lever. Starting Off To start off, switch ON ignition switch and crank the engine, depress the  brake pedal fully and release the park- ing brake. Press the shift lock button on the knob of gear selector lever and move the lever from Parking (P) mode to Drive (D) mode. Park (P) Use Park (P) position when starting the engine or parking the vehicle. Ap- ply the parking brake whenever the vehicle is to e parked. Pp’ alg CITY The selector lever must be engaged in Park (P) position only when the vehicle is stationary. DO not engage Parking Posi- tion (P) in running condition. ff engaged while the vehicle is in motion it may severely damage the transmis- sion. Before leaving the driver's seat, always make sure the shift lever is in the P (Park) position; then apply parking brake fully and shut the engine off. If this is not followed, Unexpected and sudden vehi- cle movement can occur. Reverse (R) This position puts the transmission in reverse gear when

vehi- cle movement can occur. Reverse (R) This position puts the transmission in reverse gear when engaged in sta- tionary condition with brake pedal fully pressed. R’ aly CITY The selector shall never be moved into reverse while driving for- ward. Neutral (N) The transmission is in Neutral position. N n It enables the engine to start and operate without alg CITY driving the vehicle. Drive Mode (D) STARTING AND DRIVING This position is for normal driving conditions for n maximum efficiency and D) fuel economy. It should be used as often as possible. [il Maun To move the selector to D mode; press the Shift lock button in the handle of the selector lever and at the same time press the brake pedal fully. Manual/Sport mode (M/S) This display shows vehicle is in Manual/Sport mode. v This position allows the driver to switch to activate Manual mode to select gears like a manual gear- box. Manual Pressing the shift lever towards left side while in Drive mode will put the transmis- sion in

Pressing the shift lever towards left side while in Drive mode will put the transmis- sion in Manual mode. The gear selector moves freely between the Manual (M) and Drive (D) positions. As soon as shifter is moved forward or 143  STARTING AND DRIVING backward, the Manual (M) mode is acti- vated. It is possible to shift from D mode to Manual mode and vice versa at any time during driving. To return back to Manual mode if it has been selected; move the selector lever to Drive mode (by tapping the lever to- wards right) and engage it again to M mode. If Manual mode is selected, 1st gear must be used for moving off from sta- tionary condition. In sports mode, only the 6 forward gears can be selected. To reverse or park the vehicle, move the shift lever to the R (Re- verse) or P (Park) mode as required. ‘+’ For Upshifting in Manual mode Push the gearshift lever to the “+” direc- tion and release it. Every time the lever is operated, upshifting takes place one step at a time in the order of

it. Every time the lever is operated, upshifting takes place one step at a time in the order of 1st > 2" > 30 > 4th > 5th > 6th gear. ‘-’ For Downshifting in Manual mode 144 Pull the gearshift lever to the “-” direc- tion and release it. Every time the lever is operated, downshifting takes place in the or-der 6th > 5th > 4th > 3rd > 2nd > 4st gear. In Manual/sports mode, downshifts are made automatically when the vehicle slows down. 1* gear is automatically se- lected when the vehicle stops. In Manual/sports mode, when the en- gine rpm approaches the intended lim- its, upshift will be made automatically by varying the shift points. NOTE e = Transmis- sion Control Unit may dis- allow incorrect manual shift com- mand by user and a message ‘Driver Control Shift denied’ is dis- played on Instrument Cluster. e Inorder to protect the engine, the transmission will automatically upshift to prevent engine over-rev- ving OR downshift to prevent en- gine stalling at certain specified engine rpm

engine over-rev- ving OR downshift to prevent en- gine stalling at certain specified engine rpm limits. The first few shifts on a new vehi- cle, maybe somewhat abrupt after TCU replacement or software up- dation. This is normal condition. Shifting sequence will get ad- justed after few shift cycle by TCU (Transmission Control Unit).  Shift Lever -Manually Unlock Process Fig 2 When vehicle is in ON condition and shift lever is locked/cannot moved from P (park) mode to other mode with the brake pedal depressed, below steps to be followed: 1. 2. Apply the parking brake first. Carefully squeeze & remove the bel- low (1) by pulling it in upward direc- tion as shown in area by arrows (shown in fig.1) Press & hold the release button (2) provided on shifter housing till you move the shift lever from P (park) mode to other mode by simultane- ously pressing the knob button (3). (Shown in fig.2) Carefully insert the bellow lugs (4) & snap fit in console cutout (5) high- lighted as dotted area.

Carefully insert the bellow lugs (4) & snap fit in console cutout (5) high- lighted as dotted area. (shown in fig.2) Ensure the system is inspected by authorized dealer or service part- ner. STARTING AND DRIVING 145  STARTING AND DRIVING Automatic Gear Shifter Lever Movement and Conditions Lever Position Movement Driver Shift map) zo P->>R (S) & eMiS— D — i =P} -R . . — Hi) R->>N Not required Not required euiS— D Eo a =P] PON N->>D Not required a ois — D —_ (=P) —-R fee 4] D->>M/S Not required Not required =P) ier Not required Miso M/S->>D Not required 146  STARTING AND DRIVING Driver Intervention for Shift Lever Position Movement Brake Pedal Driver Shift nis D->>N Not required Not required MS P i) N->>R Not required D a ia > —N R->>P Not required D Brake Pedal Pressed Shifter Lever Knob Pressed 147  STARTING AND DRIVING e Before engaging in any mode (P- e To avoid damage of transmis- For your safety, the automatic transmis- R-N-D), Apply brake first then sion, do not accelerate the

For your safety, the automatic transmis- R-N-D), Apply brake first then sion, do not accelerate the en- sion has a shift lock system which pre- knob button to be pressed for gine in R (Reverse) or any for- vents shifting the transmission from P safety reason. ward gear positions with the (Park) into R (Reverse) unless the brake e Before selecting the ‘M’ mode brakes ON. pedal is depressed. (manual mode), Ensure shift When| stopped) ‘en! “an\ incline To shift the transmission from P (Park) lever is placed in D mode first. roads, Use the service brake or into R (Reverse): Then engage M mode smoothly the parking brake, do not hold , & vice versa. This sequence to be the vehicle stationary with en- 1. Press and hold the brake pedal. followed to ensure safety of sys- gine power. 2. Start the engine or turn the ignition tem. e Do not shift from N (Neutral) or P switch to the ON position. (Park) into D (Drive), or R (Re- 3. Move the shift lever to R mode. verse) when the engine is above idle

into D (Drive), or R (Re- 3. Move the shift lever to R mode. verse) when the engine is above idle rpm. NOTE e Always shift the gears inline in If the brake pedal is repeatedly de- sequence ofi(P-R:N-D);Doinoutry pressed and released with the shift iO Sanit elaOTHAY, lever in the P (Park) position, noise may be heard. This is a normal condition. 148  NOTE If the Brake pedal is repeatedly de- pressed and released slowly with the shift Lever in R (Reverse) posi- tion, noise may be heard. This is a normal condition. Always depress the brake pedal fully, before and while shifting out of the P (Park) mode into another position. This is to avoid unin- tended motion of the vehicle which could injure the passengers inside or around the vehicle. NOTE Good Driving Practices (AT) e Never move the shift lever from P (Park) or N (Neutral) to any other position with the accelerator pe- dal depressed. Never move the shift lever into P (Park) when the vehicle is in mo- tion. Be ensure the vehicle is

Never move the shift lever into P (Park) when the vehicle is in mo- tion. Be ensure the vehicle is com- pletely stopped before shifting into R (Reverse) or D (Drive). Always use the parking brake. Do not depend on placing the trans- mission in P (Park) to keep the vehicle from moving. Optimum vehicle performance and fuel economy is obtained by smoothly depressing and releas- ing the accelerator pedal. STARTING AND DRIVING 149  STARTING AND DRIVING Starting and Stopping (PEPS) (If available) Engine Passive Start/Stop Start/Stop switch is provided on the dashboard towards the right side of steering wheel. Start / Stop Switch A Start Stop Switch (SSSW) or Push to Start Button is a main component of Pas- sive (Engine) Start and Stop system. It is used to control ACC, IGN outputs as well as to start and stop the engine. 150 NOTE e If Smart key is inside the vehicle and on pressing start stop switch, if start stop switch green LED blink for 10 sec. duration then rotate steering wheel and

switch, if start stop switch green LED blink for 10 sec. duration then rotate steering wheel and simultaneously press start stop switch again. e If smart key is inside the vehicle and on pressing start stop switch, if start stop switch green LED blinks more than 10 sec. du- ration then contact authorized TATA MOTORS dealer. e If ESCL (Electronic Column Steer- ing Lock) is not unlocked properly, then vehicle doesn’t go into ACC mode. Backup Start If smart key battery voltage is low or empty and vehicle is in OFF mode then to start the engine user needs to press start/stop button two times with interval of 2.5 sec. between two switch press af- ter pressing the clutch pedal OR brake with valid smart key near Immobilizer an- tenna (located below front cup holder). Emergency Start If vehicle engine is switched from ON to OFF and Start Stop button is pressed with clutch press within 5 sec, Engine gets cranked. NOTE If ESCL (Electronic Column Steer- ing Lock) is not unlocked properly, then

gets cranked. NOTE If ESCL (Electronic Column Steer- ing Lock) is not unlocked properly, then Engine will not get cranked.  a) Single Press Start: Bring the smart key with you and sit in the driver seat. Press the clutch pedal and then press the start-stop switch. Green colour LED on _ start-stop switch will turn ON. Once engine starts successfully, green colour LED on start-stop switch will remain ON. Two Step Start: Step 1 Bring the smart key with you and sit in the driver seat. Press the start-stop switch without pressing clutch pedal. Amber colour switch turns ON. LED on. start-stop Engine will remain OFF and all elec- trical equipment and infotainment b) system can be used. Steering is un- locked. Step 2 Press the clutch pedal and then press start-stop switch to start the engine. Green colour LED on start-stop switch will turn ON. Once engine start successfully, green colour LED on start-stop switch will remain ON. Three Step Start: Step 1 Bring the smart key with you and sit in

start-stop switch will remain ON. Three Step Start: Step 1 Bring the smart key with you and sit in the driver seat. Press the start-stop switch without pressing clutch pedal. Amber colour LED on. start-stop switch will turn ON. 4. b) c) STARTING AND DRIVING Limited display on instrument cluster will be ON and steering will be un- locked. Engine remain OFF. Step 2 . Press the start-stop switch without pressing clutch pedal again. Green colour LED on _ start-stop switch will turn ON. Engine will remain OFF and all elec- trical equipment and infotainment system can be used. Step 3 . Press the clutch pedal and then press start-stop switch to start the engine. Green colour LED on _ start-stop switch will turn ON. Once engine started successfully, green colour LED on start-stop switch will remain ON. 151  STARTING AND DRIVING Option | Passive Stop / OFF -Single Press Stop: e IGN is ON and engine is running. e Customer presses start-stop switch with clutch pedal e ACC and IGN relay turns

engine is running. e Customer presses start-stop switch with clutch pedal e ACC and IGN relay turns OFF. e LED on start-stop switch turns OFF. Option Il Emergency Stop / OFF -Single Long Press Stop: e IGN is ON and engine is running e Vehicle is in running condition i.e. wheel rpm >10 RPM or wheel sensor faulty. e Customer does long press of start- stop switch i.e. pressed for more than 3 seconds 152 e IGN relay turns OFF, ACC relay re- mains ON. e Amber colour switch turns ON. When vehicle is in OFF mode ( ACC, IGN and Crank OFF) and user tries to lock the vehicle from outside by pressing any door handle switch and if PEPS detect smart key left inside the vehicle, then audio warning / chime comes ON. LED on start-stop Manual Transmission (MT) Starting the Engine Make sure that parking brake is en- gaged and vehicle is in neutral gear. Press the clutch pedal fully and crank the engine. Do not press the accelerator pedal when starting the engine. NOTE The Starter protection system fit-

not press the accelerator pedal when starting the engine. NOTE The Starter protection system fit- ted in this vehicle does not allow you to crank the engine until you fully press the clutch pedal. Release the key as soon as the engine starts. Repeat if engine does not start.  NOTE The Starter protection system switches off the starter when it is continuously cranked for more than 10 secs. In such a case, get the key back to ‘OFF’ position & wait for 30 secs. The engine emits poisonous ex- haust gases such as carbon mon- oxide. Inhaling these exhaust gases leads to poisoning. There is a risk of fatal injury. Therefore, never leave the engine running in enclosed spaces without sufficient ventilation. NOTE e After starting, run the engine in idle speed for at least 30 sec- onds. Do not press accelerated pedal while starting the engine to avoid damage to turbocharger. e When vehicle is in ACC/IGN/RUN mode and user does any door state transition including tailgate and if PEPS does not

in ACC/IGN/RUN mode and user does any door state transition including tailgate and if PEPS does not detect smart key inside the vehicle when last door including tailgate is closed, then audio warning chime comes ON. Stopping the Engine Press the start stop switch to switch off the engine. Before switching off the en- gine, run the engine in idle condition for at least 30 seconds and then switch off. This will allow the engine oil to lubricate the turbocharger, till its speed is fully re- duced and also allow the unit to cool down. e A quick burst on the accelerator before turning off the engine serves no practical purpose, it wastes fuel and can damage tur- bocharger. STARTING AND DRIVING e Do not switch off the engine when it is running at high speed. This will lead to premature turbo- charger bearing wear. Starting Off To start off, press the clutch pedal fully and shift into first gear. After releasing the parking brake, gradu- ally release the clutch and slowly press the

first gear. After releasing the parking brake, gradu- ally release the clutch and slowly press the accelerator. NOTE When shifting or starting off, do not race the engine. Racing the engine can shorten engine life and affect smooth shifting. 153  STARTING AND DRIVING Gear Shifting and Driving Reverse Gear The gearshift pattern is as shown onthe _ For engaging reverse gear, lift the latch gear lever knob. Gear shifting should al- and by keeping latch lifted, shift to re- ways be done with clutch pedal pressed. verse position. NOTE e Gear recommendation is dis- played when the clutch pedal is in fully released position. e If “F” is displayed in DIS of instru- ment cluster, it means ‘Fault’ condition. Contact the TATA MO- TORS Authorized Service Centre. 154 Press the clutch fully while shift- ing the gear. The reverse gear should be engaged only when the vehicle is stationary. Wait for 5 seconds after declutching to ensure smooth engagement of the reverse gear. Do not press clutch pedal

after declutching to ensure smooth engagement of the reverse gear. Do not press clutch pedal while driving the vehicle or when sta- tionary on a slope Do not switch off the ignition while driving. If you switch off the ignition while driving, safety-relevant functions are only available with limita- tions, or not at all. This could af- fect the power steering and the brake boosting effect. You will re- quire considerably more effort to steer and brake. There is a risk of an accident.  NOTE You may notice a noise from trans- mission under certain circum- stances. This noise is normal and is not an indication of a problem with your clutch or transmission. This noise may be noticed when vehicle is idling in NEUTRAL condi- tion with the clutch engaged (clutch pedal released) or when the transmission is warm. It may also be heard while driving. NOTE e Your vehicle is equipped with Dual Mass Flywheel (DMF), which plays important role in providing refined powertrain / driveline experience. e

(DMF), which plays important role in providing refined powertrain / driveline experience. e Driving at very low engine speed is likely to stall the engine, espe- cially when driven without any accelerator pedal inputs. Recommended Driving Precau- tions: e Shift to lower gear as per gear- shift indicator (GSI) on cluster. e To start-off (marching/ drive away), always engage in first gear. e While down shifting (from 3" to 2nd gear) at low engine RPM’s (below 1000 rpm) press acceler- ator pedal to provide required rpm. Braking Your vehicle has power assisted brakes. The distance needed to bring the vehicle to a halt increases with the speed of the vehicle. Start applying brake anticipating the distance and slow down gradually. e Never use the brake pedal as a footrest. STARTING AND DRIVING e If you rest your foot on the brake pedal while driving, the braking system can overheat. This in- creases the stopping distance and can even cause the braking system to fail. There is a risk of an

creases the stopping distance and can even cause the braking system to fail. There is a risk of an accident. e Never press the brake pedal and the accelerator pedal at the same time. If you have driven for a long time in heavy rain without braking, there may be a delayed reaction from the brakes when braking for the first time. This may also occur after the vehicle has been washed. Brake performance may become poor and unpredictable if brakes are wet. After driving through water or washing the underside of the vehicle, test the brakes while driving at a slow speed to see if they have maintained their normal effectiveness. If the brakes are less ef- fective than normal, dry them by repeat- edly applying the brakes while driving 155  STARTING AND DRIVING slowly until the brakes have regained their normal effectiveness. Braking on Downhill Gradients On long and steep gradients, you must reduce the load on the brakes by shifting early to a lower gear. This allows you to take advantage of

the load on the brakes by shifting early to a lower gear. This allows you to take advantage of the engine braking ef- fect and helps avoid overheating and ex- cessive wear of the brakes. e Do not shift to lower gear on a slippery road surface in an at- tempt to increase the engine's braking effect, the drive wheels could lose their grip. e There is an increased danger of skidding and accidents. 156 Driving Climbing Sharp Gradients on Loose Surfaces Start off smoothly in a suitable gear. Ac- celerate smoothly so that there is no loss of traction by over-rewving of the engine. Choose a slope as smooth as possible and select the appropriate gear so that gear changing in the middle of the climb is not required. Changing gears in the middle of the climb can cause loss of momentum and engine stalling. Shifting to lower gear has to be done cautiously to avoid loss of traction. Under no conditions should the vehicle be moved diagonally across a hill. The anger is in loss of traction and

should the vehicle be moved diagonally across a hill. The anger is in loss of traction and sideways ippage, possibly resulting in toppling over. If unavoidable, choose as mild an angle as possible and keep the vehicle moving. a If the wheels start to slip within few feet of the end of the climb, motion can be maintained by swinging the steered wheels left and right, thereby providing increased grip. If the vehicle stalls or losses headway while climbing a steep hill, make a quick shift to reverse and allow the vehicle to move back with the control of engine compression. Descending Sharp Gradients Depending on the severity of the gradi- ent, shift into appropriate gear. Use en- gine braking judiciously without over-rev- ving the engine. Brake application under such situations should be done very. When descending on sharp gradi- ents, NEVER turn the ignition key to the ‘OFF’ position. Emission con- trol system damage may result.  STARTING AND DRIVING Stopping the Vehicle Turn the key to

con- trol system damage may result.  STARTING AND DRIVING Stopping the Vehicle Turn the key to ‘ACC’ position to switch off the engine. Before switching off the engine, run the engine in idle condition for at least 30 seconds and then switch off. This will allow the engine oil to lubri- cate the turbocharger, till its speed is fully reduced and also allow the unit to cool down. A quick burst on the accelerator before turning off the engine serves absolutely no practical pur- pose, it wastes fuel and can dam- age turbocharger. Do not switch the engine off when it is running at high speed. This will lead to premature turbocharger bearing wear. Parking Brake Mechanical parking brake acting on the rear wheels is provided on the vehicle. Parking Brake Parking Brake Applied To apply the parking brake, hold the lever as shown in above figure with nuckle facing towards vehicle front and pull the lever. WARNING Do not press the button, while ap- plying parking brake. 157  STARTING AND DRIVING

lever. WARNING Do not press the button, while ap- plying parking brake. 157  STARTING AND DRIVING Parking Brake Released To release parking brake, hold the lever and pull the lever up slightly, press the knob with the help of middle and ring fin- ger as shown in figure and release the parking brake. NOTE Apply the parking brake properly before leaving the vehicle and re- lease it before moving the vehicle. 158 Mechanical parking brake acting only on the rear wheels is provided on the vehi- cle. To apply the parking brake, pull the lever up fully. The parking brakes tell- tale illuminates on the instrument clus- ter. To release it, pull the lever up slightly, press the release knob and push the lever down. Parking brakes tell-tale on the instrument cluster will turn ‘OFF’ when the lever is fully released. Vehicle Parking e Park the vehicle in a safe place. e Apply the parking brake. e Engage the gear shift lever in Park (P) mode. e Ensure that all window glasses are closed and all

e Engage the gear shift lever in Park (P) mode. e Ensure that all window glasses are closed and all lamps are turned ‘OFF’. At night, put on the parking lights if required. Remove the key from the vehicle and lock the vehicle. e Block the wheels and engaged in gear if parked on a slope. NOTE When parking on a downhill gradi- ent, place the gear lever in ‘Re- verse’ position. While parking on uphill gradient, place the gear lever in the ‘1°" position. Never leave children unsupervised in the parked vehicle. They could also operate the vehicle's equip- ment. There is a risk of an accident and injury.  NOTE Do not use parking brake for brak- ing unless unavoidable circum- stances like when service brake is not working properly. The braking distance is considerably longer and the wheels could lock. There is an increased danger of skidding and accidents. During parking, Ensure that Vehi- cle should not be keyed off in D mode. Reverse Park Assist (if available) The user can view the Park

should not be keyed off in D mode. Reverse Park Assist (if available) The user can view the Park assist screen by selecting this feature in Infotainment display to see any obstacle behind the vehicle while parking. ons «OHO Home a G 6 4 ‘Anérlé huto AppleCarPay Rado uss a 6 o 0 Se wean The system also displays the Park assist screen when the reverse gear is en- gaged. It provides audio and visual information through the vehicles infotainment sys- tem / Buzzer. Always look at surrounding before initiating reverse parking for kids, pets and elderly people moving around the vehicle. STARTING AND DRIVING Reverse Park Assist with Sensor A Please Drive Carefully Operation The reverse park assist system can also be activated manually through infotain- ment screen. Display will be seen on in- fotainment screen. NOTE Turning the ignition ‘OFF’ ‘while the Park assist feature in running would disable the feature. 159  STARTING AND DRIVING Reverse Park Assist Limitations Reverse Park Assist

disable the feature. 159  STARTING AND DRIVING Reverse Park Assist Limitations Reverse Park Assist system is not a colli- sion avoiding system. It is solely the driver’s responsibility to park the vehicle safely. Reverse Park Assist feature works on ul- tra sound echo technology, due to which performance is not guaranteed in follow- ing scenarios: If the object has a sharp edge sur- face, where surface may divert ech- oes from sensor reception. If object is mesh fence made up of thin wires, where echoes can’t be given by the surface. Fast moving objects passes in the sensor field of detection, where ech- oes are not processed by the system. If object is made/covered by foam or sponge or snow where ultrasonic sound signals are absorbed. Objects close to the rear bumper can go undetected by the Reverse Park Assist field of detection. Driver 160 should use extreme caution while parking the vehicle. height of the bumper is changed due to alteration to the suspension or other causes. the

vehicle. height of the bumper is changed due to alteration to the suspension or other causes. the sensor areas are extremely hot rom direct sunlight or cold due to reezing weather. Sensors are covered by a hand, sticker, accessory, etc. ultrasonic noise is present around Vehicle due to other vehicle sensors, orn, engine, air braking system (large vehicles), Exhaust Fans, Wire- less transmitters or mobile phones. the vehicle speed exceeds 10 m/h, the system will not warn you even though objects are detected, er- ror message 'Vehicle Speed is high, drive slowly!' will appear. Driving on uneven road surfaces e.g. Gravel, unpaved roads, Artificial Speed Breakers, or gradient. Due to any reason, if the sensor gets misaligned or loses its in- tended fitment position, contact your dealer for refitment. NOTE Turning the ignition ‘OFF’ ‘while the Park assist feature in running would disable the feature. 0 to 25 cm obstacle detection per- formance is not guaranteed due to ultrasonic sensor

the feature. 0 to 25 cm obstacle detection per- formance is not guaranteed due to ultrasonic sensor technology limi- tation.  Reverse Park Assist System Pre- ventive Maintenance/Cleaning 1. Regularly clean the Sensors and keep them free from dust, ice, mud, water, chewing gum etc. for proper working of the system. Use a smooth cloth for cleaning. Do not use water at high pressure for cleaning the sensor. Do not cover the sensors. This will in- terrupt park assist performance. Do not remove mud, snow on the sensors using stick or hard material. Use normal water and soft cloth. In low light conditions, the screen may darken or image may appear faint. If the tire sizes are changed, the position of the fixed guidelines displayed on the screen may change. In case of damage of the rear portion of the vehicle, Reverse Park Assist sensors position may change which causes wrong visual information on dis- play. In case of damage, make sure that, Reverse Park Assist sensors are fitted properly

on dis- play. In case of damage, make sure that, Reverse Park Assist sensors are fitted properly at the intended location. In case of uneven road condi- tions or up-hill or downhill condi- tions, do not depend on Reverse Park Assist aid. Do not apply any kind of force on the reverse park assist sensors. STARTING AND DRIVING Park Assist Malfunction Indications In case of Reverse park assist system malfunctions, the following screen may appear on the infotainment system. Reason for this fault may be a. Body Control Module Failure b. Sensor Malfunction c. Partner components such as Info- tainment music system, Instrument Cluster failure. 161  STARTING AND DRIVING Rear Park Assist with Camera (If available) Rear View Camera is a visual reverse guiding system. When reversing or park- ing, make sure that there are no per- sons, animals or objects in the area in which you are reversing. 162 Display screen Three color moving grid lines guide the user to understand the rear object dis- tance

screen Three color moving grid lines guide the user to understand the rear object dis- tance exactly. The grid lines are updated by the motion of the vehicle as well as by the steering input. Guidelines will help you to rightly find the sufficient parking place, helps you to keep the vehicle straight, rear object proximity indication etc. NOTE Turning the ignition ‘OFF’ ‘while the Park assist feature in running would disable the feature.  STARTING AND DRIVING Audio Warning Audio warning may come from Infotainment system speaker or through Buzzer, depending on vehicle model and configura- tion. Distance Range from Visual Information Audible Infor- Bumper (in mation cm) All six zones are 25-50 highlighted (Red, Continuous Green and Yellow Beep zones) Activation Bottom four zones 51-100 are highlighted (Yel- | - oo Beep Reverse Gear low and Green This System will activate, if reverse gear is engaged. zones) Bottom two zones Deactivation 101 - 150 are highlighted Slow Beep (Green zones)

is engaged. zones) Bottom two zones Deactivation 101 - 150 are highlighted Slow Beep (Green zones) System will deactivate, if reverse gear is disengaged, or park assist button (if available) is pressed. 163  STARTING AND DRIVING Understanding Guidelines Indica- tion A Please Reverse Carefully ! SSS See Green’ Yellow Static guidelines Green Yellow Dynamic guidelines 164 Green Line Indicates, if rear object is in this colored zone, you have to be cautious. Still you can go backward safely. Yellow Line Indicates, if rear objects are in this col- ored zone, you have to take utmost care. However, objects fall in this zone, may not hit vehicle. Red Line Indicates, if rear objects are in this col- ored zone, you have to stop the vehicle and not allowed to go backward. If you still go backward, your vehicle will hit the object. Do’s and Don’t As the camera is, IP protected, do not detach, disassemble or modify in any manner from the actual position. This will show required visual infor-

disassemble or modify in any manner from the actual position. This will show required visual infor- mation in display. Do not use camera when tailgate is open. If tailgate is open, visual infor- mation may not be the actual rear view of the vehicle & system will warn with message ‘Tail Gate Open, Please close. When the camera is operated under fluorescent lights, sodium light or mercury light etc., illuminated areas on the lens may appear to flicker in the display. Do not attach any advertisement or styling or any kind of stickers on top of camera. If this happens, camera cannot provide you the visual image and may damage camera. Do not add any accessory, which will obstruct camera field of view.  Cleaning Camera 1. Due to environmental reasons, dust, mud or fog may accumulate on the camera lens. So regularly clean the camera lens. Use water to clean the camera lens. Do not use extreme cold or hot water. Rapid changes in temperature may brittle the camera lens. Do not apply High

cold or hot water. Rapid changes in temperature may brittle the camera lens. Do not apply High Pressure water for cleaning. Wipe the camera lens with soft cloth. Do not use hard cloth or material to wipe the camera lens. This will cause scratches on the camera, and leads to deteriorated visual image on the display. Do not apply organic solvent, car wax, window cleaner or glass coat to clean the camera. If this is applied, wipe it off as soon as possible. Do not apply heavy force on lens, while cleaning. 7. Do not remove mud, snow on the camera lens using stick or hard ma- terial. Use normal water and soft cloth. The camera uses fish eye lens. So the size of the objects or in he display may differ from the actual size and distances in low ight conditions, the screen may darken or image may appear aint. if the tire sizes are changed, the position of the fixed guidelines displayed on the screen may change. During rainy conditions, image may get obscured. In such condi- ions, do not

the screen may change. During rainy conditions, image may get obscured. In such condi- ions, do not depend on camera view. The camera used in the ve- hicle, may not reproduce the same color of the real object. STARTING AND DRIVING The camera used in the vehicle, may not reproduce the same color of the real object. In case of damage of the rear portion of the vehicle, camera position may change. Which causes wrong visual information on display. In case of damage, make sure that, camera is fitted properly at the intended location. In case of uneven road condi- tions or up-hill or downhill condi- tions, do not depend on rear view camera park aid. Do not apply any kind of force on the camera. Always use rear View mirrors along with Rear View Camera for confirming the safety of the rear and the surrounding conditions. High humidity and variation in ambient temperature may result into condensation inside the camera lens, which may further 165  STARTING AND DRIVING result into degradation of

inside the camera lens, which may further 165  STARTING AND DRIVING result into degradation of cam- era video feed on the screen. It is recommended that not to rely on camera video feed for parking assistance in such scenario. This phenomenon is temporary and will be automatically recovered with reduction in humidity and less variation in ambient temper- ature. e The area displayed by the rear view camera is limited. The cam- era does not display objects that are close to or below the bumper, underneath the vehicle, or ob- jects out of the camera’s field of view. The area displayed on the screen may vary according to ve- hicle orientation or road condi- tions. 166 Rear View Camera System Pre- cautions 1. Area Displayed on Screen The rear view camera system displays an image of the view from the bumper of the rear area of the vehicle. To adjust the image on the rear view monitor system screen. Corners of bumper The area displayed on the screen may vary according to vehicle orien-

screen. Corners of bumper The area displayed on the screen may vary according to vehicle orien- tation conditions. Objects, which are close to either cor- ner of the bumper or under the bumper, cannot be seen on the screen. The camera uses a special lens. The distance of the image that appears on the screen differs from the actual distance. The monitor may not dis- play items that are located higher than the camera field of view. When the Ground Behind the Ve- hicle Slopes Up Sharply  The distance guidelines will appear to be closer to the vehicle than the actual dis- ance. Because of this, objects will appear to be arther away than they actually are. n the same way, there will be a margin of error between the guidelines and the actual distance/course on the road. 3. When the Ground Behind the Ve- hicle Slopes Down Sharply STARTING AND DRIVING The distance guidelines will appear to be further from the vehicle than the actual distance. Because of this, objects will appear to be closer

from the vehicle than the actual distance. Because of this, objects will appear to be closer than they actually are. In the same way, there will be a margin of error between the guidelines and the actual distance/course on the road. 4. When Any Part of the Vehicle Sags A margin of error When any part of the vehicle sags due to he number of passengers or the distri- bution of the load, there is a margin of error between the fixed guide lines on 167  STARTING AND DRIVING the screen and _ the tance/course on the road. actual dis- 5. When Approaching Three-di- mensional Objects The distance guidelines are displayed according to flat surfaced objects (such as the road). It is not possible to deter- mine the position of three-dimensional objects (such as vehicles) using the dis- tance guidelines. When approaching a three-dimensional object. a. Distance Guidelines TS! 1 C fea\ © © @ 6 168 Visually check the surroundings and the area behind the vehicle. On the screen, it appears that a truck

check the surroundings and the area behind the vehicle. On the screen, it appears that a truck is parked at point B. However, in reality if you back up to point A, you will hit the truck. On the screen, it appears that A is closest and C is furthest away. However, in reality, the distance to A and C is the same, and B is farther than A and C. b. Vehicle Width Guidelines  Drive mode selection switches are pro- STARTING AND DRIVING NOTE Visually check the surroundings and the area behind the vehicle. In the case shown below, the truck appears to be outside of the vehicle width guidelines and the vehicle does not look as if it hits the truck. However, the rear body of the truck may actually cross over the vehicle width guidelines. In reality if you back up as guided by the vehicle width guide- lines, the vehicle may hit the truck. Drive Mode (if available) vided on center console for activation. Press the switch to select the mode. ‘ECO ‘, ‘CITY’ and ‘SPORT’ drive modes are provided.

Press the switch to select the mode. ‘ECO ‘, ‘CITY’ and ‘SPORT’ drive modes are provided. These modes can be used to adjust engine characteristics and ve- hicle performance in line with desired re- quirement. Drive Mode Performance Increased engine Torque CITY and Power output for BALANCED perfor- EX mance. It is default mode. Optimum engine Torque ECO and Power output for FUEL EFFICIENT perfor- mance. SPORT Produce more torque from engine. When vehicle is in ECO or SPORT mode, by pressing current mode switch again, mode will switch to CITY mode. Terrain Response Mode (if availa- ble) Rotate the knob clockwise to select the terrain mode. 169  STARTING AND DRIVING 1. Normal Road Mode In this mode vehicle performance opti- mized to support, all surface condition. Stopping distance progressively, in- creases with vehicle speed. Maintain a sufficient distance between your vehicle and the vehicle ahead. For long distance driving, perform safety checks before starting a trip and take rest

ahead. For long distance driving, perform safety checks before starting a trip and take rest at certain intervals to prevent fa- tigue. 2. Wet Mode On wet road or during light showers, “Aq- uaplaning” can occur. “Aquaplaning” is the loss of direct contact between the road surface and the vehicle’s tires due to a water film forming between them. Steering or braking the vehicle can be very difficult, and loss of control can oc- cur. The best advice is to slow down when the road is wet. 170 The wet mode is designed for driving in the rain. It is characterized by having bet- ter traction and handling so you can ef- fectively and safety drive during these conditions. NOTE If you have driven for a long time in wet road without braking, there may be a delayed reaction from the brakes when braking for the first time. You have to depress the brake pedal more firmly. Maintain a greater distance from the vehicle in front. 3. Rough Road Mode Rough Road Mode optimizes the vehicle behavior for

from the vehicle in front. 3. Rough Road Mode Rough Road Mode optimizes the vehicle behavior for driving over rough road or other unyielding obstacles. Braking performance is also tuned to support Rough road surfaces as com- pared to other drive modes. System allows improved rough road per- formance to be more easily accessible to all customers specially novice or inexpe- rienced user. NOTE Cautiously drive the vehicle on a rough road or off the road. Other- wise, the tires and wheels may be damaged. After driving those ar- eas, inspect the tires and wheels. 4. Electronic Stability Program (ESP) (if available) ESP monitors driving stabil- we ity and traction. <<a If ESP detects that the vehicle is deviat- ing from the direction desired by the driver, one or more wheels are braked to stabilize the vehicle. The engine output is also modified to keep the vehicle on the desired course within physical limits. ESP assists the driver when pulling away on wet or slippery roads. ESP can also

physical limits. ESP assists the driver when pulling away on wet or slippery roads. ESP can also stabilize the vehicle during braking and acceleration. Activate the ESP feature by pressing on the center console.  5. Hill Descent Control (HDC) (if available) While driving down on a hill e slope, activate the HDC fea- [i ture by pressing on the cen- oO ter console. HDC provides a smooth and controlled hill descent by enabling the vehicle to control the speed of each wheel. The system will automatically apply the brakes to slow down to the desired vehi- cle speed. Cruise control +/-buttons or Brake and accelerator pedal can be ad- just the speed to a comfortable level. HDC interventions will be automatically disabled once the descent is complete and vehicle is on levelled road. Non-zero speed less than 35 kmph would be re- quired to turn ON HDC. A speed greater than 40 kmph will end all active HDC control and switch HDC to standby mode. Once the vehicle speed is lower than the specified

HDC control and switch HDC to standby mode. Once the vehicle speed is lower than the specified threshold of 40 kmph HDC becomes activated again whenever required (No press of HDC button is re- quired).HDC is permanently switched off if the vehicle speed exceeds 60 kmph and Active state on HDC switch will go off automatically. HDC works in both Neu- tral and in Gear forward and reverse po- sition. While driving down a hill, the engine braking should be used by shifting into a lower gear. Do not drive in neutral gear or switch off the engine. HDC cannot take account of road, weather, traffic and tyre condi- tions. You are always responsible for keeping control of the vehicle and for assessing whether the downhill gradient can be man- aged. STARTING AND DRIVING 171  172  Emergency Equipment You should be familiar with the location of the emergency equipment provided in the vehicle and how to use it. Check this equipment periodically and ensure that they are in proper working condition

to use it. Check this equipment periodically and ensure that they are in proper working condition and stowed at their locations. First Aid Kit The first aid kit is kept inside the glove box compartment. The kit contains items that can be used in case of minor injuries only. NOTE Check contents of the first aid kit periodically and replenish con- sumed or expired items. EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Tool kit, Jack and Spare wheel Spare Wheel Tool kit, Jack are provided in rear boot. 1. Spare wheel removal spanner . Jack . Reversible screw driver 2 3 4. 5. Jack Handle . Wheel Spanner 173  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Advance Warning Triangle Spare Wheel Removal Process e Toremove the spare wheel, open the tail gate. e Open the cover and take out the ad- vance warning triangle. Keep the warning triangle at an approxi- An advance warning triangle is kept on ate distance of 50-150 m behind your the tool tray in the luggage compart- vehicle in the same lane of traffic. The ment.

m behind your the tool tray in the luggage compart- vehicle in the same lane of traffic. The ment. reflecting side of the triangle should face the oncoming traffic and it should be Use advance warning triangle to warn __ free from any obstacles. the approaching traffic in case of vehicle ¢ Open the flap with the help of screw breakdown or during emergency, where driver provided in tool kit for access- your vehicle could become a potential After using the warning triangle tie ing to spare wheel removal retaining traffic hazard. it firmly and keep it inside the bag bolt. to avoid rattling noise. Press hazard warning switch, all turn sig- nal lamps will start blinking. 174  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE e Remove the holding bracket from the spare wheel and get the spare wheel separated. e Insert the spare wheel removal span- the spare wheel lowers down as ner and rotate anticlockwise to un- shown. screw the retaining bolt. 175  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Spare Wheel Fitment

to un- shown. screw the retaining bolt. 175  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Spare Wheel Fitment Process Engage the holding brackets in spare wheel. Insert the spare wheel removal span- ner and rotate clockwise to lift the spare wheel. Tighten the bolt until you heard the ‘Tak’ noise. Do not overtight. Hazard Warning Switch Press the hazard warning switch to acti- vate the hazard warning. All the turn sig- nal lamps will flash simultaneously. To turn OFF, press the switch again. Use the hazard warning to warn the traf- fic during emergency parking or when your vehicle could become a traffic haz- ard. NOTE NOTE While stowing the spare wheel, en- sure that winch bracket is properly engaged in wheel slot. 176 The hazard warning lamps can op- erate even if the ignition is switched off. In Case of Flat Tyre Reduce vehicle speed gradually, Avoid sudden steering movement or braking. Pay attention to the traffic conditions as you do so. Switch on the hazard warning lamps. Stop the vehicle

to the traffic conditions as you do so. Switch on the hazard warning lamps. Stop the vehicle on solid, non-slip- pery and level ground, as far away as possible from traffic. Use the Jack on level, hard ground. Avoid changing the wheel on uphill and downhill slopes. Chock the wheels, if the deflated wheel needs to be changed on slope / ghat area. If possible, bring the front wheels into the straight-ahead position. Secure the vehicle against rolling away. Set the parking brake firmly and shift into “R” (Reverse) gear on level ground and while vehicle is in down- hill position. When the vehicle is in uphill position, shift the gear in first gear.  e Switch off the engine. e Keep advance warning triangle at a suitable distance behind the vehicle as an indication of breakdown. e Close all the doors. e Chock the wheels, shift the gear in to “‘R’ (Reverse) on level ground and while vehicle is in down hill position, and shift the gear in first gear when vehicle is in uphill position. If you

in down hill position, and shift the gear in first gear when vehicle is in uphill position. If you drive with a flat tyre, there is a risk of the following hazards: e A flat tyre affects the ability to steer or brake the vehicle. e You could lose control of the vehi- cle. e Continued driving with a flat tyre will permanently damage the tyre and cause excessive heat buildup and possibly a fire. There is a risk of an accident. EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE NOTE Changing Flat Tyre Remove the center hub cap/wheel cover in case of steel wheel rim (if available). Loosen the nuts (as indicated) on the wheel in diagonal sequence. Do not un- screw the nuts completely before jacking the vehicle. Wheel nut removal The jack is designed only to raise and hold the vehicle for a short time while a wheel is being changed. It is not suited for per- forming maintenance work un- der the vehicle. Use the jack on level, hard ground. Avoid changing the wheel on uphill and downhill slopes. Chock the

the jack on level, hard ground. Avoid changing the wheel on uphill and downhill slopes. Chock the wheels, if the deflated wheel needs to be changed on slope / ghat area. Before raising the vehicle, se- cure it from rolling away by ap- plying the parking brake. Chock the wheels. Shift the gear into 'R' (reverse) on level ground and while vehicle is in downhill position, and shift the gear in first gear when vehicle is in up- hill position. Do not use wooden blocks or similar objects as a jack under- lay. 177  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE e Do not place your hands and feet or lie under the raised vehi- cle when it is supported by a jack. e Do not run the engine when the vehicle is supported by the jack and never allow passengers to remain in the vehicle. e Do not open or close a door or the tailgate when the vehicle is raised. Assemble the Jack handle and wheel _/@¢King point location WARNING spanner (as shown in jacking fig). If you do not position the jack cor- rectly at the

WARNING spanner (as shown in jacking fig). If you do not position the jack cor- rectly at the appropriate jacking point of the vehicle, the jack could tip over with the vehicle raised. There is a risk of injury. Jack may also get damage. Rear Jack Location Position the jack vertically and raise it by turning the jack handle clockwise until the jack sits completely on jacking point and the base of the jack lies evenly on the ground. Jacking Point Location on Vehicle Continue to raise the jack slowly and smoothly until the tyre clears the ground. Do not raise the vehicle more than nec- Front Jack Location essary. The jacking points are indicated below the door of the vehicle (Refer jacking point location). 178  Jacking front wheel Jacking rear wheel EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Remove wheel mounting nuts with the help of wheel spanner and take out flat tyre. NOTE Do not place wheel nuts in sand or on a dirty surface. Do not apply oil or grease on it. Roll the spare wheel into

nuts in sand or on a dirty surface. Do not apply oil or grease on it. Roll the spare wheel into position and align the holes in the wheel studs. nstall wheel nuts with their cone shaped end facing the wheel. Tighten each nut y hand until the wheel is securely seated on the hub. Lower the jack completely then tighten he wheel nuts one by one using wheel spanner. Press fit the wheel cover back /center ub cap back (if available). Restore all the tools and jack at their respective location. Place the flat tyre at spare wheel loca- tion. NOTE Check and correct the tyre pres- sure and wheel nuts tightness of the changed wheel at nearest au- thorised service station. Get the flat tyre repaired at the ear- liest. WARNING Do not jack the vehicle under rear axle. 179  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Jump Lead Starting Use only a battery of same rating & ca- pacity to jump start your vehicle. Position the booster battery close to your vehicle so that the jump leads will reach both batteries.

the booster battery close to your vehicle so that the jump leads will reach both batteries. When using a battery of another vehicle, do not let the vehicles touch. Apply the parking brake firmly and keep the gearshift lever in neutral. Turn off all vehicle accessories, except those necessary for safety like hazard warning lamps. If your vehicle is equipped with Battery sensor, then do not connect your jump start cable lead directly on the Sensor surface. Connect only on the negative cable surface as shown on the image. Af- ter jump start event, IAC function will be restored only when the Vehicle is parked in idle for 3-4 Hours. 180 Make jump lead connections as follows: e Connect one end of the first jump lead to the positive (+) terminal of the discharged battery. e Connect the other end to the positive (+) terminal of the booster battery. e Connect one end of the second jump lead to the negative (-) terminal of the booster battery. Make the final connection (other end of the

to the negative (-) terminal of the booster battery. Make the final connection (other end of the negative terminal) to an un- painted, heavy metal part (i.e. engine mounting stud/nut) of the vehicle of discharged battery. Connect the cable in numerical order & disconnect in reverse order. q d Booster Battery Discharge Battery Metal (Engine) part of with discharged battery Start the engine of the vehicle with the discharged battery. Before disconnecting the jumper ca- bles, let the engine run for severa minutes.  e If the booster battery you are using is fitted to another vehicle, start the en- gine of the vehicle with the booster battery. Run the engine at moderate speed. e Remove the jump leads in the exact reverse order in which you connected them. Do not disconnect the discharged battery from the vehicle. EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Never connect the jump lead di- rectly to the negative (-) terminal of the discharged battery. This may lead to an explosion. Do not allow

to the negative (-) terminal of the discharged battery. This may lead to an explosion. Do not allow battery electrolyte to come in contact with eyes, skin, fabrics or painted surfaces. The fluid contains acid which can cause injury and severe damage. Wear protective apparel. Do not inhale any battery gases. Keep children away from batteries. In case if battery acid comes in con- tact with the skin, wash it off im- mediately with water and seek medical attention. During charging and jump-start- ing, explosive gases can escape from the battery. There is a risk of an explosion. Particularly avoid fire, open flames, creating sparks and smoking. Ensure there is sufficient ventilation while charging and jump-start- ing. Do not lean over the battery. Make sure that the positive ter- minal of a connected battery does not come into contact with vehicle parts. Never place metal objects or tools on a battery. It is important that you observe the described order of the bat- tery terminals when

on a battery. It is important that you observe the described order of the bat- tery terminals when connecting and disconnecting a battery. If you are in doubt, seek assistance from qualified specialist work- shop. Never connect or disconnect the battery terminals while the en- gine is running. 181  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Towing When towing a break down vehicle, cer- tain precautions and procedures must be taken to prevent damage to the vehi- cle and/or components. Failure to use standard towing precautionary measures when lifting or towing a break down vehicle could result in an unsafe operating condition. To ensure proper towing and to prevent accidental damage to your vehicle, take help of a TATA MOTORS authorized dealer or a commercial tow-truck ser- vice. NOTE Make sure that the parking brake is released; vehicle in neutral gear position and steering wheel is un- locked. The power steering func- tions only when engine is running. Hence, during towing the steering

The power steering func- tions only when engine is running. Hence, during towing the steering efforts will be more. 182 WARNING Never get under your vehicle af- ter it has been lifted by a tow truck. For towing a vehicle, the best way is to use a wrecker. Alternatively use a rigid tow bar. Switch 'ON' the hazard warning indicators of both the vehicles to warn other road users. Limit the speed to 20-30 kmph. In case of brake failure, use the parking brake to control the vehicle. Fasten the tow rope or tow bar at the towing eyes. Otherwise, the vehicle could be damaged. When towing, pull away slowly and smoothly. If the tractive power is too high, the vehicles could be damaged. Access to Tow Hook e Unscrew the screws (1) & (2) with the help of screw driver which is provided in Tool kit.  For removal of cover, pull the rear side down. e Slide the cover in rear direction to disengage front lugs. e Then carefully disengage the side lugs. EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE For fitment of

lugs. e Then carefully disengage the side lugs. EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE For fitment of cover, e Engage the front lugs first. e Slowly press from both side to en- gage side lugs. e Engage rear lugs and then tighten the screws. Recommended Towing In case of break down, we recommend that your vehicle be towed with the driv- ing wheels off the ground or place the ve- hicle on a flatbed truck as shown. WARNING e Never tow your vehicle with the ront wheels on the ground or ‘our wheels on the ground (for- ward or backward), as this may cause serious damage to the ransmission. e When towing with the rear wheels on the ground or on tow- ing dollies, place the ignition switch in the ‘ACC’ or ‘ON’ posi- ion, and secure the steering wheel in the straight-ahead posi- ion with a rope or similar device. To avoid serious damage to automatic transaxle, limit the vehicle speed to 15 km/h (10 mph) and drive less than 1.5 k m (1 mile) when towing. 183  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Before

and drive less than 1.5 k m (1 mile) when towing. 183  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Before towing, check the automatic transaxle fluid leak under your vehicle. If the automatic transaxle fluid is leaking, a flatbed equipment or towing dolly must be used. 184 Fuses Your vehicle has fuse boxes at two loca- ions. The vehicles electrical circuits have uses to protect the wiring from short cir- cuits or sustained overload. 1. Engine Compartment Fuse Box 2. Cabin Compartment Fuse Box Checking and Replacing Fuses If any electrical unit in your vehicle is not functioning, check the fuses first. Please follow the steps below that will guide you to check and replace them. e Apply parking brake. e Switch off all electrical accessories. e Turn the ignition key to the 'LOCK' po- sition. e Inthe fuse box, identify the defective fuse from its melted wire. OK BLOWN e Remove the blown fuse by “fuse puller”. The fuse puller and spare fuses are provided in the engine compartment fuse box.

by “fuse puller”. The fuse puller and spare fuses are provided in the engine compartment fuse box.  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE e If you manipulate or bridge a faulty fuse or if you replace it with a fuse of higher amperage, the electric cables could be over- loaded. This could result in a fire. There is a risk of an accident and injury. e Always replace faulty fuses with the specified new fuses having Engine compartment fuse box the correct amperage. e Blown fuses must be replaced with fuses of same rating, which you can recognize by color and value. 2a j pret Always ensure that the spare fuses are replenished. e Ensure that all other fuses are pressed firmly in position. é e If a newly inserted fuse also blows, oncee ences have the cause traced and rectified at nearest TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre immediately. on ov aw ow enw ‘TRANSISSON 185  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE To access the fuse box, follow the proce- USE Function ISS d i below: No. Rating ure as

ASSISTANCE To access the fuse box, follow the proce- USE Function ISS d i below: No. Rating ure as given below: e Open the Engine compartment. PFI STARTER 250 A MOTOR e Remove the 2 screws of air intake cover (snorkel) with the help of screw WARNI driver provided in tool kit If Fuse box cover is removed for e Remove the snap fitted cover of fuse any reason, it should be refitted box. properly at its original position. 1. Engine Compartment Fuse Box = ay The fuse box layout is for reference purpose only. Please refer the sticker provided inside the fuse box cover. Fuse box located in Engine compartment near battery. 186  Fuses - Engine Compartment (Diesel) EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE R18 R16 AC CLUTCH MICRO RELAY (NO 20A) HORN MICRO RELAY (NO 208) R14 Dou RELAY MICRO RELAY (NO 20a) ATS RELAY MICRO RELAY {NO 208) R17 R15 R13 FUEL PUMP HEAD LAMP HEAD LAMP MICRO RELAY LOW BEAM HIGH BEAM (NO 20A) MICRO RELAY | | MICRO RELAY (NO 20A) (NO 20A) WIPER ON/OFF MICRO RELAY (NO-NC 204)

BEAM (NO 20A) MICRO RELAY | | MICRO RELAY (NO 20A) (NO 20A) WIPER ON/OFF MICRO RELAY (NO-NC 204) WIPER SPEED ‘SLOW/FAST (NO-NC 20A) STARTER || COOLING FAN INHIBIT HIGH MAX! MINI RELAY RELAY (NO-40A) (NO-70A) F22. Ft GKOER er] feoouna Pa fae sox | |rase FS F416 ceow | |ton0" on 30a F20 F19 irae] [mes sen) |icron 400 wa 1 39) F17 F1, 8 ea] ses | |epound bet wr | Pe dr23 F12 Fil Fi0 FO +e} | == |] sm |] ene Pn | ea | hea | ee STARTER | |COOLING FAN eeu [P31 SOLENOID || LOW MINI ms minirevay |] RELAY malls (NO-40A) ( ) ps D2 Ems ECU IGNITION MINI RELAY (NO-40A) MINI RELAY (]- iF EquipPeD {NO-40A) D1 187  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Fuse 20 BLOWER MOTOR 40A N Functio! Relay Function 21 COOLING FAN FAST 60A 1 INTERIOR F/B BAT - | UNDERBONNET EIR RI IGNITION MINI NO 40A 22 30A RELAY BOX 2 EMS BATT 5A COOLING FAN LOW 23 REVERSE LAMP AT 5A R2 40A 3 COMPRESSOR 10A MINI NO RELAY 24 HEAD LAMP HIGH 10A COOLING FAN HIGH 4 ATS 15A BEAM RH R3 MAXI NO RELAY TOA HEAD LAMP HIGH HORN HIGH/LOW 25

HIGH 10A COOLING FAN HIGH 4 ATS 15A BEAM RH R3 MAXI NO RELAY TOA HEAD LAMP HIGH HORN HIGH/LOW 25 140A EMS ECU MINI NO 5 TONE 15A BEAM LH R4 40A 26 HEAD LAMP LOW 410A RELAY 6 ABS ECU 25A BEAM RH RS STARTER SOLENOID 40A 27 HEAD LAMP LOW 410A MINI NO RELAY 7 SPARE 7 BEAM LH R6 STARTER INHIBIT 40A 8 EMS RELAY 40 28 EMS ECU - II 15A MINI NO RELAY 9 BRAKE LAMP 5A 29 EMS ECU -| 20A R7 _ 10 FUEL PUMP 20A 30 EMS ECU - III 10A R8 _ WIPER SPEED 39 SPARE _ "4 pcu 15A RQ SLOW/FAST MICRO 20A 12 Tou 415A 40 EMS IGN 5A (NO-NC) RELAY 13 SPARE _ a ABS IGN 5A R10 _ REVERSE LAMP WIPER ON/OFF MI- 14 INTERIOR F/B BAT - Il 60A 42 (MTyTCU (aT) 5A RM GRO (NO-NC) RELAY 20A FRONT WIPER MO- 15 GLOW PLUG 60A 43 wer 30A R12 ATS MIGRO NO 20A 16 IGNITION LOAD 30A 44 SPARE _ HEAD LAMP HIGH R13 BEAM MICRO NO 20A 17 ABS ECU 40 45 IBS 5A REALY 18 COOLING FAN Low 40 46 SPARE _ Rid DCU MIGRO NO RE- 20A 19 STARTER MOTOR 30A 47 EMS-CRANK INPUT 5A SOL 188  R15 HEAD LAMP LOW BEAM MICRO NO. REALY 20A R16 HORN MIRCO NO. RELAY

47 EMS-CRANK INPUT 5A SOL 188  R15 HEAD LAMP LOW BEAM MICRO NO. REALY 20A R16 HORN MIRCO NO. RELAY 20A R17 FUEL PUMP MICRO NO RELAY 20A R18 AC CLUTCH MICRO NO REALY 20A EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE 1. Cabin Compartment Fuse Box Cover Removal Procedure Fuse box is located behind glove box. To access the fuse box, remove cover as per procedure given below: 1. Remove snap fitted end-cover first. 2. To remove the cover, gently pull the cover from bottom side such that the lugs get disengaged. 3. Open glove box and remove com- plete assembly by removing high- lighted 4 screws.  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE 4. Disconnect glove box lamp connec- 5. Disconnect glove box switch connec- 6. Pull out the fuse from fuse box mod- tion. tion. ules from available cutout as shown below. 190  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE 7. Check the fuse of required function with help of fuse box sticker present at shown location. 8. If fuse is blown, replace with same rating fuse from spare fuses in

present at shown location. 8. If fuse is blown, replace with same rating fuse from spare fuses in en- gine compartment fuse box. 9. Fit back the glove box by following re- verse procedure. NOTE It is recommended to replace fuse at TATA Authorised service centre. 191  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Fuses - Cabin Compartment ee (J- IF EQUIPPED mars [em | oom ze [+ Ree] TOP SIDE SS | |e | Soo 1A | Bow. A “MODULE: FUSEBOX MODULE -| FUSEBOX MODULE - |! wren | on | eon m A c A . c oe al coL-tock eiay | TALGATE RELEASE ean wiper revay ||| POWER SEAT RELAY MICRO NO-NC RELAY ‘MICRO NO MICRO | ae ~ 204 ‘MICRO NO 208 208 me = (eon so | {owner | “* 8 D 8 D r coL-untook RELAY | jonmon RELAY Fare x Re Lae RELAY a ‘MICRO MICRO NO ps] ee] = = re [en] || ww || a DUMMY MICRO RELAY MODULE FOR XE] FUSEBOX MODULE - VI FUSEBOX MODULE - Il (XT & XZ) FUSEBOX MODULE -IV veneoa | [nomen | A SY POA 4 A sara] | ax || ae || waren J HEATED REAR WINDOW MINI RELAY (XT & XZ) BLOWER pars || °° | parcassat | 6A 404

ax || ae || waren J HEATED REAR WINDOW MINI RELAY (XT & XZ) BLOWER pars || °° | parcassat | 6A 404 MINI RELAY towsten | oa su ~ Tae) | oe) | FRONT VIEW Pore || ae | | Sono Fall . 5 el ‘sor | me TERRAN ‘SuNSHADE) | 204 ACCESSORY Searcoien| za | cs MINI RELAY sat ae wor fom | BASSE fe [DUMMY MINI RELAY MODULE FOR XE) 192  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Fuse Funct use) IGN SUPPLY POWER SOCKET 15A RESTRAINT CONTROL 40a MUDULE MIRROR ADJUST MOTOR 5A IMMO IGN/ PEPS IGN FEED- 5A BACK USB CHARGER BSIV/ USB CHARGER BSVI SAI 10A RELAY COIL/ PEPS ACC 410A) 5A ACC BATT HIGH POWER 208 BCM - | 415A IMMO BATT/ TPMS BATT 5A BCM - Il 15A INFOTAINMENT 208 BCM - III 15A OBD/ACC BATT LOW 15A POWER HVAC BAT 10A AMPLIFIER 20A TAILGATE RELEASE 10A CDL - LOCK PEPS 10A MICRO NO-NC RELAY 208 |. CLUSTER 5A CDL - UNLOCK 930A MICRO NO-NC RELAY KEY-IN/ POWER SEAT SA/ 20A TAILGATE RELEASE 220A ACC RELAY COIL/ SUN- BA) 20A MICRO NO RELAY ROOF IGNITION 930A TERRAIN RESPONSE TOA MICRO NO RELAY SWITCH REAR WIPER 0A

BA) 20A MICRO NO RELAY ROOF IGNITION 930A TERRAIN RESPONSE TOA MICRO NO RELAY SWITCH REAR WIPER 0A TRANSIT {0A MICRO NO RELAY POWER SEAT 930A REAR WIPER 10A MICRO NO RELAY REVERSE LAMP 930A REAR BLOWER MOTOR 15A MICRO NO RELAY HEATED REAR WINDOW PARK ASSIST 5A MINI NO RELAY 40A BLOWER MOTOR WM MTR DR DOOR 25A NID EEA 40A USB CHARGER 3RD ROW 5A ACCESSORY 40A MINI NO RELAY CDL 15A STARTER FEEDBACK 5A HRW 25A SUNSHADE/ BLOWER CON- TROLLER 20A/ 5A 193  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Bulb Specification High beam + Low beam (Option I) 12V, 55W 4 2 | _Highbeam+ Low beam (Option Il) | Low Beam : 12V, 25 he 4 3 Turn Signal Front (Option 1) 12V, 21W PY21W 2 4 Turn Signal Front (Option Il) LED LED Module 2 5 Turn Signal Rear 12V, 21W PY21W 2 6 Fog Lamp Front (Option 1) 12V, 19W H16 2 7 Fog Lamp Rear (Option II) 12V, 21W P21W 2 8 Stop Lamp LED LED Module 2 9 Position Lamp Front (Option 1) 12V, 5W W5W 6 10 Position Lamp Front (Option II) LED LED Module 2 11 Position Lamp Rear LED LED Module 4

5W W5W 6 10 Position Lamp Front (Option II) LED LED Module 2 11 Position Lamp Rear LED LED Module 4 12 Reverse Lamp 12V, 16W W16W. 2 13 Rear Registration Plate Lamp LED LED Module 2 14 Side Repeater Lamp on ORVM LED LED Module 2 15 High Mounted Stop Lamp (Option 1) 12V, 5W W5W 5 16 High Mounted Stop Lamp (Option II) LED LED Module 1 194  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE 17 Boot Lamp 12V, 5W W5w 1 18 Glove Box Lamp 12V, 5W W5W 1 19 DRL (|f available) LED LED Module 2 20 Roof Lamp 1st Row LED LED Module 1 21 Roof Lamp 2nd Row LED LED Module 1 22 Door Ajar / Puddle Lamp 12V, 5W W5W 4 195  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE 24 X 7 Road Assistance Dear Customer, It is our responsibility and our endeavor to ensure that you have our complete service backup, wherever and whenever you need the same. When you have a road network that spans wide area, the probability of a breakdown happening within hailing distance of a TATA MO- TORS Authorized Workshop is very low. It is precisely for this

hailing distance of a TATA MO- TORS Authorized Workshop is very low. It is precisely for this reason, we have tied up with TVS AA, who will provide breakdown assistance including towing to the nearest TATA MOTORS Authorized Workshop through their Authorized Ser- vice Providers (ASP). The 24X7 On Road Assistance Program shall be automatically available to your vehicle for the duration of Warranty pe- riod. The program shall also be availa- ble, if you avail the same post warranty. 196 Response Time ** for the On Road Assistance Program Within City 60 minutes Limits On State or Na- tional High- 90 minutes ways Ghat Roads and other 120 minutes places ** (The response time will depend on he location, terrain, traffic density and he time of the day.) Standard procedure when calling for On Road Assistance in case of a breakdown: e Dial the toll free help line number - 1800 209 7979 e Identify your vehicle with the Vehicle chassis number that is available in the Owner’s Manual. Explain your

your vehicle with the Vehicle chassis number that is available in the Owner’s Manual. Explain your exact location with land- marks and tell us about the problem you face with the vehicle. Park your vehicle on the edge of the road, open the bonnet and put on the hazard warning signal. Place the advance warning triangle supplied with the vehicle approx. 3m from the vehicle in the direction of oncoming traffic. Ti MOTORS | SERVICE RESPONSIVE 24x7 ON-ROAD ASSISTANCE 1800 209 7979  Coverage under 24 X 7 on Road Assistance Program |. The 24x7 On Road Assistance Pro- gram Service covers the following ser- vices on your vehicle during warranty pe- riod. e Wheel change through spare wheel. e Arrangement of fuel. (Fuel cost will be chargeable at actual cost) e Re-opening the vehicle in cases of key lock out. e Rectification of electrical problems related to battery, fuses etc. e Onspot repairs for complaints repair- able at site. e Vehicle to vehicle towing or winching & towing for non-accident

complaints repair- able at site. e Vehicle to vehicle towing or winching & towing for non-accident cases up to the nearest TATA MOTORS author- ized workshop. Towing charges at ac- tual cost beyond the same to be paid to the ASP in cash. (Any ferry or toll EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE charges levied in relation to the vehi- cle being towed to be paid by the cus- tomers in actuals in cash). For accident cases, towing charges to be borne by the customer. Il. The 24x7 On Road Assistance Pro- gram coverage on availing the 24X7 pol- icy, post warranty is up to maximum of 6 instance of assistance in one year for both the plans- Basic and Premium. In the premium plan, this includes 2 in- stances of towing up to the nearest TATA MOTORS authorised workshop. Exclusions 24 X 7 On Road Assistance Program does not apply to e Cost of parts consumables and la- bour for such repairs not covered un- der warranty*. These charges are to be settled with ASP in cash. e Toll or ferry charges paid by

der warranty*. These charges are to be settled with ASP in cash. e Toll or ferry charges paid by ASP in reaching to the breakdown site to be settled with ASP in actuals in cash. Cases involving accident, fire, theft, vandalism, riots, lightening, earth- quake, windstorm, hail, tsunami, un- usual weather conditions, other acts of God, flood, etc. Vehicles that are unattended, un-reg- istered, impounded or abandoned. Breakdown/defects caused by mis- use, abuse, negligence, alterations or modifications made to the vehicle. Lack of maintenance as per the maintenance schedule as detailed in the owner’s manual. Cases involving racing, rallies, vehi- cle testing or practice for such events. 197  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Disclaimer The Service is not available in Lak- shadweep. **The reach time is indicative & the actual reach time will be conveyed by the call centre at the time of break- down call. The reach time can vary depending on the traffic density & time of the day. The

break- down call. The reach time can vary depending on the traffic density & time of the day. The reach time indicated does not account for delays due to but not lim- ited to acts of God, laws, rules & reg- ulations for time being in force, or- ders of statutory or Govt. authorities, industrial disputes, inclement weather, heavy down pour, floods, storms, natural calamities, road blocks due to accidents, general strife and law & order conditions viz. fire, arson, riots, strikes, terrorist at- tacks, war etc. 198 * On spot repairs at breakdown site shall depend on nature of com- plaints & will be as per the discretion of the ASP. *The decision for free of charge re- pairs will be as per the warranty pol- icy & procedures of TATA MOTORS LTD. and as per the interpretation of the same by ASP. You will be duly in- formed by the ASP & call centre for the change applicable if any. All charges wherever applicable need to be settled directly with the ASP. Exclusion of Liabilities It is

wherever applicable need to be settled directly with the ASP. Exclusion of Liabilities It is understood that TATA MOTORS shall be under no liability whatsoever in respect of any loss or damage aris- ing directly or indirectly out of any de- lay in or non-delivery of, defect/defi- ciency in service/parts provided by ASP. In case vehicle cannot be repaired on-site, customers are advised to use the towing facility for taking their vehicle to the nearest TATA MOTORS authorized workshop only. In no con- dition will the vehicle be towed to any unauthorized workshop. TATA MO- TORS will not be responsible for any repairs carried out in such unauthor- ized workshop. Customer are advised to take ac- knowledgment from the ASP for the list of accessories/extra fittings and other belongings in the vehicle as well as the current condition related to dents/scratches breakages of parts/fitments of the vehicle at the  time of ASP taking possession of the vehicle & to verify these items when delivery

vehicle at the  time of ASP taking possession of the vehicle & to verify these items when delivery is taken back by them, Claim for loss of or damage to items, if any should be taken up with ASP directly. TATA MOTORS shall not be responsi- ble for any such claims, dam- ages/loss or any deficiency of ser- vice of the ASP. Vehicles will be handled, repaired & towed as per the customer's risk & TATA MOTORS shall not be liable for any damages / claims as a result of the same. Services entitled to the customers can be refused or cancelled on ac- count of abusive behavior, fraudu- lent representation, malicious intent and refusal to pay the charges for any charges related services and spare parts during service or on pre- vious occasion on part of the cus- tomer. On site repairs may be temporary in nature. The completion of repairs does not certify the road worthiness of the vehicle. The customer is ad- vised to ensure temporary repairs carried out onsite is followed by per- manent repairs

is ad- vised to ensure temporary repairs carried out onsite is followed by per- manent repairs at a TATA MOTORS Authorized Workshop at the earliest. Terms and conditions and service coverage, exclusions etc. are subject to change without notice. EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE 199  200  Maintenance and Service Periodic maintenance is essential for en- suring long trouble free performance. Have your vehicle serviced regularly from TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre. There is a large network of TATA MO- TORS Authorized Service Centre to help you with their professional servicing ex- pertise. Scheduled maintenance infor- mation is provided which makes tracking routine service easy. The following checks can be carried out between the recommended scheduled maintenance services. Take help of our authorized service centre for assistance. e Engine oil level e Engine coolant level e Brake/Clutch fluid level e Washer fluid level checking & top- ping up e Power steering fluid level e

fluid level e Washer fluid level checking & top- ping up e Power steering fluid level e Battery electrolyte level e Tyre inflation pressure spare wheel NOTE Refer “Opening and Closing” sec- tion for engine bonnet opening. including MAINTENANCE e Be careful not to touch a hot en- gine, exhaust manifold and pipes, muffler, radiator and wa- ter hoses. e Do not work on a vehicle with the engine running in an enclosed space, unless you are sure of enough ventilation. e Keep all open flames and other burning material (such as ciga- rettes) away from the battery and all fuel related parts. If you need to do any work inside the engine compartment, e Switch off the ignition e Never reach into the area where there is a risk of danger from moving components, such as the fan rotation area. e Keep clothing away from moving parts. 201  MAINTENANCE Engine Compartment 1. Brake fluid reservoir 2. Windshield washer container 3. Coolant auxiliary tank 4. Power Steering Oil Reservoir 5. Dip stick engine

washer container 3. Coolant auxiliary tank 4. Power Steering Oil Reservoir 5. Dip stick engine oil 6. Engine oil filling cap 7. Fuse and relay box (Below Air intake) 8. Battery 202  Oil / Fluid Level Engine Oil Level Checking Warm up the engine to normal operating temperature. Turn it ‘OFF’ and wait for 5 minutes for the oil to return to the oil pan. Be sure the vehicle is on a level surface. Take out the dipstick, wipe it clean, and reinsert it fully. Pull it out again and ex- amine the oil level. It should be between ‘MIN’ and ‘MAX’ level. If not, top up with recommended engine oil. NOTE The oil consumption depends upon the driving style and the con- ditions under which the vehicle is used. % Engine oil dipstick NOTE e Do not remove the filler cap when the engine is running. e Do not add oil above the MAX. mark. Oil level above the MAX. mark may cause engine dam- age. For location of Engine oil filling cap and dip stick, please refer Engine Compartment. MAINTENANCE Engine Oil

of Engine oil filling cap and dip stick, please refer Engine Compartment. MAINTENANCE Engine Oil Quality Monitoring Indi- Your vehicle is equipped with a feature in the en- cator gine management system =a which will monitor the engine oil quality throughout the lifetime of the oil in the engine. This will ensure that an oil change is requested only when really necessary. Once the oil quality reaches a threshold, the engine management sys- tem will ask for oil change by lighting the above lamp. This lamp will be blinking for oil change request. Depending on your driving conditions, the oil quality may get deteriorated sooner. For example, if you are driving predominantly in highway conditions without straining the engine excessively, the oil lamp indicating oil change may appear later than expected. Similarly, if you drive continuously and for a long time in city at low speeds with frequent cold starts and short journeys, the en- gine management system may prompt 203  MAINTENANCE you

cold starts and short journeys, the en- gine management system may prompt 203  MAINTENANCE you to change the oil sooner than had the car been used mainly in highways. NOTE e Under no circumstances oil change intervals should exceed 15,000 km or 12 Months, which- ever occurs earlier. This behaviour is absolutely normal, the oil change is intended to keep your en- gine at peak efficiency, and replacing used oil with fresh oil is normal mainte- nance and not a malfunction. As soon as this lamp is blinking, the oil should be changed as per oil change / servicing procedure. Please contact nearest TATA authorized service center per the normal oil change / i servicing procedure, the oil quality should be reset using TML diag- nostic tool. The vehicle should never be immediately. Once the oil is changed as 204 run again after an oil change without re- setting oil quality using TML diagnostic tool. If the vehicle is continuously driven ig- noring this lamp, MIL, in addition to the above lamp,

If the vehicle is continuously driven ig- noring this lamp, MIL, in addition to the above lamp, will be turned ON. Depend- ing on the distance driven without oil change and oil quality reset, the engine will go into a soft or strong performance reduction mode. NOTE The appearance of this blinking warning light or symbol is not re- lated to the amount of oil in the en- gine, so if the light or symbol comes ON and blinking, never add / top up engine oil but contact the nearest TATA authorized service center to have oil change and re- set. Brake/Clutch Fluid Level Top up if required.  NOTE e Do not allow brake fluid to make contact with the skin or eyes. e Donotallow brake fluid to splash or spill on the painted surface as it will damage the paint. In case of spillage, wipe it off immedi- ately. For location of Brake/Clutch Fluid Container and filling cap, please refer Engine Compartment. Engine Coolant Level Check whether the coolant level is be- tween the ‘MIN’ and ‘MAX’ marks pro-

Engine Coolant Level Check whether the coolant level is be- tween the ‘MIN’ and ‘MAX’ marks pro- vided on the coolant reservoir. When the coolant level is low, top up with recommended coolant up to ‘MAX’. level. NOTE In case of emergency, a large amount of water without engine coolant may be added in order to reach a vehicle service location. Whenever coolant has been added, the coolant level in the coolant reservoir should be checked few times after driv- ing the vehicle to confirm correct level. For location of Engine coolant con- tainer and filler cap, please refer En- gine Compartment. NOTE Topping of the coolant should be done in the auxiliary tank only. MAINTENANCE Make sure that only TATA MOTORS rec- ommended coolant is used. Mixing of different coolants may harm your en- gine’s cooling system and its compo- nents. Do not add extra inhibitors or ad- ditives to the coolant. These can be harmful and compromise the corrosion protection of the engine coolant. e The engine cooling

can be harmful and compromise the corrosion protection of the engine coolant. e The engine cooling system is pressurized, particularly when the engine is warm. When open- ing the cap, you could get burnt by hot coolant spraying out. There is a risk of injury. e Let the engine cool down before opening the cap. Wear eye and hand protection when opening the cap. Open the cap slowly half a turn to allow pressure to es- cape. 205  MAINTENANCE Power Steering Fluid Level The level of the power steering fluid should be between the MIN. and MAX. mark on the side of the power steering fluid container. If the level falls below the MIN. mark, add recommended fluid. In case of leakage or hard steering, please contact the nearest Authorised Service outlet. 206 WARNING e Donotstart the engine without oil in the power steering system. e Do not allow dirt into power steer- ing fluid reservoir during refilling or top up. NOTE Turning the steering wheel to full left or right lock and holding it there

or top up. NOTE Turning the steering wheel to full left or right lock and holding it there can damage the power steer- ing pump. NOTE For Oil/fluid specification and Quantity, please refer ‘Mainte- nance’ section. For location of Power steering fluid container, please refer Engine Com- partment section. Windshield Washer Fluid Level Check that there is washer fluid in the tank. Refill it if necessary. Use a good quality windshield washer fluid, diluted with water as necessary. NOTE e Donot use detergent or any other additive in the windshield washer reservoir. This can severely im- pair visibility when sprayed on the windshield, and can also damage your vehicle’s paint.  e Donot operate washer motor with no fluid in washer tank, washer motor will be damaged. For location of Windshield Washer Container and filling cap, please refer respective Engine Compartment. To access battery terminals, remove the cover by removing the 5 knobs. Examine the battery for electrolyte level against the

remove the cover by removing the 5 knobs. Examine the battery for electrolyte level against the marking on the bat- tery outer case. Examine the battery terminals for corrosion (a white or yellowish pow- der). To remove it, wash the termi- nals with a solution of baking soda. It will bubble up and turn brown. MAINTENANCE When this stops, wash it off with plain water. Dry off the battery with a cloth or paper towel. Apply petroleum jelly to the terminals to prevent further corrosion. Use a proper wrench to loosen and remove cables from the terminals. Always disconnect the negative (-ve) cable first and reconnect it last. If your vehicle is equipped with Bat- tery Sensor, then disconnect only the Sensor Output Cable. Do not remove the Sensor, Sensor connector com- pletely as this will result into Sensor function loss temporarily. Sensor functionality will be restored when the Vehicle is parked for 3-4 hours without any operation. Clean the battery terminals with a terminal cleaning tool

for 3-4 hours without any operation. Clean the battery terminals with a terminal cleaning tool or wire brush. Reconnect and tighten the cables, coat the terminals with petroleum jelly. 207  MAINTENANCE Make sure that the battery is se- curely mounted. If you need to connect the battery to a charger, disconnect both cables to prevent damage to the vehicle’s electrical system. If your vehicle is equipped with Bat- tery Sensor, connect the jump start leads on output terminal of Battery Sensor. Do not connect the jump start leads on Sensor surface or Bat- tery terminal. This will result of func- tion loss of Battery sensor. Refer the below Battery Sensor im- age for do's and don'ts. 208 For location of battery, please refer image of the respective Engine Com- partment. NOTE Use only authorized Battery recom- mended by TATA Motors. Use of any other unauthorized Battery will re- sult into Intelligent Alternator Con- trol (IAC) function detoriation. NOTE Authorized Battery: 78 Ah- Enhanced

Alternator Con- trol (IAC) function detoriation. NOTE Authorized Battery: 78 Ah- Enhanced flooded battery to be replaced with enhanced flooded battery (78 Ah) of the respective supplier only NOTE e During normal operation, the battery generates gas which is explosive in nature. A spark or open flame can cause the bat- tery to explode causing very seri- ous injuries.  Keep all sparks, open flames and smoking materials away from the battery. The battery contains sulphuric acid (electrolyte) which is poi- sonous and highly corrosive in nature. Getting electrolyte in your eyes or on the skin can cause severe burns. Wear pro- tective clothing and a face shield or have a skilled technician to do the battery maintenance. Transmission Air Oil Cooler For automatic transmission, hot oil com- ing out of transmission flows through transmission air oil cooler and gets cooled before entering transmission again. As such it does not require any maintenance however it can be cleaned externally by

again. As such it does not require any maintenance however it can be cleaned externally by blowing compressed air. While cleaning, ensure that inter cooler and transmission air oil cooler fins are not damaged. If the fins get damaged, it could lead to lose of performance and subse- quent failure. Maintenance Recommendations Check the boost pressure pipe for its proper fitment, damage etc. - Specified engine oil and the oil filter should be used and should be changed regularly in accordance with Service Schedule. - MAINTENANCE Check oil feed pipes, return pipes, air in- take and exhaust piping for leak- ages and restrictions. Check the engine breathing system and oil separator. - Fill the oil inlet hole of the turbocharger with clean engine oil, when the engine is started after long storage. 209  MAINTENANCE Inflation Recommended tyre pressure in Check for inflation and condition of your Cold condition (Laden / Unladen) vehicle tyres periodically. Tyre size Front Rear Check the

of your Cold condition (Laden / Unladen) vehicle tyres periodically. Tyre size Front Rear Check the pressure in the tyres when 235/70 33 psi / 33 psi/ they are cold. R16 2.27 bar 2.27 bar Keeping the tyres properly inflated gives 235/65 33 psi / 33 psi / 1 2 3 you the best combination of riding com- R17 2.27 bar 2.27bar fort, handling, tyre life and better fuel ef- UNDER INFLATION CORRECT OVER INFLATION ficiency. NOT! &) Ci &) Over inflation of tyres makes the vehicle In case of Air filling in hot tyre con- ride bumpy and harsh. Tyres are more dition, increase tyre pressure by 3 prone to uneven wear and damage from psi over specified cold pressures. road hazards. Under Excessive side Under inflated tyres reduce your comfort 1 inflation tread wear in vehicle handling and are prone to fail- ures due to high temperature. They also Correct tyre . cause uneven wear and more fuel con- 2 pressure Uniform wear sumption. Excessive NOTE 3 | Over inflation center tread Every time you check

pressure Uniform wear sumption. Excessive NOTE 3 | Over inflation center tread Every time you check inflation wear pressure, you should also examine tyres for uneven wear, damage and trapping of foreign objects in the treads and wear. 210  Tyre Pressure Sticker Location On B Pillar near driver seat. Tyre Rotation To increase tyre life rotate the tyre at specified intervals or earlier depending on the operation of vehicle. The illustrations shows how to rotate tyres when normal or temporary spare wheel is fitted. For steel wheel rims with spare steel wheel rim For alloy wheel rims with spare wheel of steel wheel rim (if available) =a ixXiO MAINTENANCE Wheel Alignment Incorrect wheel alignment causes exces- sive and uneven tyre wear. Check wheel alignment at specified intervals. Wheel Balancing Wheels of your vehicle are balanced for better ride comfort and longer tyre life. Balancing needs to be done whenever tyre is removed from rim. If the vehicle vibrates abnormally on a smooth

needs to be done whenever tyre is removed from rim. If the vehicle vibrates abnormally on a smooth road, have the wheel balanced done immediately. NOTE e While driving in snow, It is advisa- ble to use the snow chain on roads. Follow assembly and safety instruction provided by the snow chain manufacturers. e Please refer service schedule for wheel alignment. 211  MAINTENANCE Special Care for Tubeless Tyres e While removing tyre from wheel rim and mounting it back on wheel rim, take precautions not to damage tyre bead. Use tyre removal and assem- bly machines. Damage or cut on tyre bead may cause gradual loss of air and deflation of tyre. e Do not scratch inside of tubeless tyre with metallic or sharp object. Tube- less tyres are coated with impermea- ble layer of rubber from inside which holds the air inside the tyre. Removal of this layer due to scratching may cause gradual loss of air and defla- tion. e If wheel rim gets damaged in service, get the wheel rim repaired/ replaced

air and defla- tion. e If wheel rim gets damaged in service, get the wheel rim repaired/ replaced immediately. Running the vehicle with damaged rim may cause defla- tion of tyre and subsequent dislodg- ing of tyre from rim. 212 e Maintain recommended _ inflation pressure. Over-inflation, in particu- lar, may cause puncture or bursting of tyre. NOTE e Life and wear pattern of tyres de- pends on various parameters like tyre pressure, wheel alignment, wheel balancing, tyre rotation, etc. It also largely depends on ve- hicle speed, load carried, usage, driving habits, road conditions, tyre quality, etc. In case fault is suspected to be due to poor qual- ity of tyres, the same may be taken up with concerned tyre manufacturer. e Forsteel rim, Red dot of tyre to be matched with blue dot of rim while re-fitment. e Foralloy rim, Yellow dot of tyre to be matched with valve of rim while re-fitment. Remote Key Battery Replacement (For Flip key) Remote control key contains a battery, which is

Remote Key Battery Replacement (For Flip key) Remote control key contains a battery, which is housed under the cover. If red LED on remote flashes for 5 times after operating any button on remote. It is recommended to replace battery at a TATA MOTORS Authorised Service Cen- tre. You should, however, proceed as follows if you wish to replace the discharged bat- tery yourself: 1. Open the key blade. 2. Press off the battery cover with your thumb or using a flat screwdriver at the points of the arrows. 3. Remove the discharged battery from the key by pressing the battery down- wards at the point of the arrow.  4. Insert the new battery. 5. Ensure that the “+” symbol on the battery is facing upwards. The cor- rect polarity is shown on the battery cover. 6. Position the battery cover on the key and press on it until it is heard to lock in place. Smart Key Battery Replacement (For PEPS variant) Procedure: 1. Open rear side of key (battery cover). N rw MAINTENANCE Replace with new battery in

Procedure: 1. Open rear side of key (battery cover). N rw MAINTENANCE Replace with new battery in the smart key battery slot with proper po- larity of battery. Close the battery cover. Ensure that the key cover is intact properly. NOTE Use CR 2032 battery only. NOTE An inappropriately disposed battery can be harmful to the environment and human health. Dispose the battery ac- cording to your local law(s) and regulation. 213  MAINTENANCE On Board Diagnostic (OBD Il) System Diagnostic connector is located on RH side below the steering wheel. On board Diagnostics or OBD, is an auto- motive term referring to a vehicle’s self- diagnostic and reporting capability. The OBD system allows continuous diagno- sis of the components of the vehicle cor- related with emissions. This system warns the driver, by turning “ON” the Malfunction Indication lamp (MIL) on the 214 instrument cluster, when a fault causes emission levels to increase. The OBD system also has a diagnostic connector that can be

causes emission levels to increase. The OBD system also has a diagnostic connector that can be interfaced with appropriate diagnostic tools, which makes it possible to read the fault codes stored in the Electronic Control Unit, to- gether with a series of specific parame- ters for Engine operation and Diagnosis. This check can also be carried out by the traffic police.  Diesel Particulate Fi ter (DPF) Warning Indi- cator Your vehicle is equipped with a Diesel Particulate Filter (DPF). DPF is a me- chanical filter that physically traps par- ticulate matter from diesel engine ex- haust gas. DPF traps the particulate matter in the following way: e Filtration - Particulates / soot are collected in the inlet channel of the filter. e Regeneration - When the filter channels are filled up with soot, they are cleaned automatically by the en- gine management system. This pro- cess is known as DPF Regeneration and this will happen during normal running of the vehicle. DPF equipped in vehicle

DPF Regeneration and this will happen during normal running of the vehicle. DPF equipped in vehicle normally regen- erates automatically which is controlled by engine management system. In certain specific driving conditions, DPF regeneration may not happen auto- matically as the desired temperatures required to regenerate soot may not be achievable due to specific driving condi- tions. This includes prolonged driving at low vehicle speeds for considerable amount of time (driving in heavy city traf- fic), prolonged running of the engine in idle conditions etc. In such cases, a warning lamp as indicated above will be illuminated in the instrument cluster in- dicating that soot regeneration is insuffi- cient. This warning lamp switches ON con- stantly to indicate that the DPF needs to be regenerated. This lamp does not indi- cate any malfunction. The warning lamp remains OFF during normal vehicle behavior and lights up only when driving condition requires the driver to be notified. When

vehicle behavior and lights up only when driving condition requires the driver to be notified. When this lamp is ON, keep the car running ideally at 34 gear, 60km/hr with engine speed over 2000 rpm until regeneration is com- pleted and warning lamp goes OFF. The MAINTENANCE process normally takes about 20 minutes. Do not shut down engine till the warning lamp goes OFF. If DPF regeneration process requested above is not followed for a long distance and the vehicle is driven with warning lamp ON, it can cause MIL to be turned ON. Once MIL is ON, please con- tact nearest TATA authorized service center. Service should connect the TML diag- nostic tool and conduct DPF service re- generation as indicated in the diagnostic tool. Insufficient DPF regeneration resulting in the above lamps can also happen if the vehicle is driven with adultered die- sel. 215  MAINTENANCE Service Instructions The TATA HARRIER has been manufactured to give you eco- nomical and trouble free performance. To achieve

HARRIER has been manufactured to give you eco- nomical and trouble free performance. To achieve this, please follow the instructions as stated. Your vehicle is entitled to three free services (labour only). The free service coupons are attached to the sales invoice. Please present these coupons to the servicing dealer while availing free services. 1st free service - At 1,000 - 2,000 kms. OR 2 months, whichever is earlier. 2nd free service - At 7,000 - 8,000 kms. OR 6 months, which- ever is earlier. 3rd free service - At 14,500 - 15,500 kms. OR 12 months, which- ever is earlier. All services other than free services are chargeable. 216 Servicing of the vehicle can be done at any TATA MOTORS Authorised Dealer Workshop or TATA MOTORS Authorised Service Centre (TASC). Warranty claims can be settled by any TATA MOTORS Author- ised Dealer Workshop or TATA MOTORS Authorised Service Centre (TASC).  Service Schedule Operation MAINTENANCE General Wash the vehicle 1 & Clean Conden- ser Fins.

Service Schedule Operation MAINTENANCE General Wash the vehicle 1 & Clean Conden- ser Fins. Every Service Check & Top up Fluids (If required): Transaxle Oil, Die- sel Exhaust Fluid 2 | (DEF)*, Coolant, Brake Fluid, Bat- tery Electrolyte, Wind Screen washer fluid. Every Service Check Fuel Lines for Leakages. Every Service Check and Cap- ture all DTC's Clear all faults and Erase the Codes. Every Service Check & Replace if 5 | found damaged — Exhaust hanger 30K/ 24M Check all door latch & striker op- 6 | erations, Adjust If required and apply grease if required. 15K/ 12M # - Kms or Months whichever occurs earlier 217  MAINTENANCE Operation Check — Rubber Boots, _ Rubber seat, Dust cover & Bushes for dam- age & replace if required (Suspen- sion). Driveshaft - Rubber boot, any cracks, Oil seep- age observed — Replace or rectify. 7.5K | 6M Check for all bolts & nuts (Tighten). 7.5K | 6M Engine (Diesel) Change engine oil and Oil filter. 15K / 12M Drain water from Fuel Filter Bowl. 7.5K | 6M

(Diesel) Change engine oil and Oil filter. 15K / 12M Drain water from Fuel Filter Bowl. 7.5K | 6M Replace fuel filter cartridge. 15K) 12M Check AC & alter- nator belt condi- tion visually, re- place if found damage. 15K/ 12M Change coolant. #60K/ 36M # - Kms or Months whichever occurs earlier 218  Operation Replace air filter element # g | (more frequently forvehi- | oie . . . . . cle operating in severe i” 36M condition). Replace timing drive kit | # 7 | (Timing belt, Auto ten- | 150K . sioner and Idler). /60M Replace FEAD kit (Belt, 8 idler 1&2, Auto ten- Saki . " 48M sioner) Transaxle Check oil level and top 15K / 1 Up if necessary — Manual . . . . . . . . . . " 12M Transmission. 2 | Automatic Transmission Filled for life time fluid Steering 4 Check oil level and top |15K/ ‘ . . . . . . . . . . Up if necessary. 12M . # Replace Power steering 2 105K . Oil & filter element. 36M Brakes Check front brake pads |,<4, 1 | &rear brake linings. Re- | 1944 . . ° . ° . . ° . . place if

Check front brake pads |,<4, 1 | &rear brake linings. Re- | 1944 . . ° . ° . . ° . . place if necessary. Replace brake _ fluid. # Check brake system 2 | components for Leak- ML ° bd bd ages. # - Kms or Months whichever occurs earlier 219  MAINTENANCE Operation Inspect & if neces- 3 | sary adjust hand- | 15K! brake setting. 12M Wheels & Tyres 4 | Check & Adjust | #15K, Wheel alignment. | 12M Check for Tyre ly 7 oq, 2 | pressure, condi |* (500 tion & rotate. Electrical Check specific 1 | gravity of battery von electrolyte. 2 | Check headiamp | 15K7 focussing. 12M AC. System Clean filter and check — Air-condi- 4 | tioning 7 HVAC | Every system for satis- | Service factory —_perfor- mance. 2 | Replace Potten Fie | 15K/ ter. 12M # - Kms or Months whichever occurs earlier 220  Operation Sunroof Check and clean 1 the guide rails and Pde . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . drain holes. Clean the guide 2 | rails and mecha | 7.5K / efefetetefetefetefelefefetelefe le fe]e]. grease. # -

Clean the guide 2 | rails and mecha | 7.5K / efefetetefetefetefelefefetelefe le fe]e]. grease. # - Kms or Months whichever occurs earlier * DEF is a consumable item, refill or replacement is not based on service intervals. The consumption of DEF can vary depending on driving style, and road and weather conditions **.. For severe off-road usage, above checks to be done at every 5,000 km or after every severe usage event. 221  MAINTENANCE Additional Maintenance Schedule under Severe Driving Conditions Condition Operation Frequency 1 Engine oil and oil filter Change every 7500 km or 6 months or whenever oil quantity lamp e . . e glows. 2 Air filter element Change at every 15,000 km or 18 months whichever is earlier. e e A- Driving in conditions such as Patrolling, Pickup Van, Vehicle Towing, with Trailer Towing B - Driving on Dusty / Sandy roads C - More than 50% (in terms of km) driving in heavy city traffic D - Frequently operating in mountainous area NOTE In case of emergency, a large

heavy city traffic D - Frequently operating in mountainous area NOTE In case of emergency, a large amount of water without engine coolant may be added in order to reach a vehicle service location. 222  Vehicle Parking for Long Duration (Non - Use Maintenance) If you want to park your vehicle at one place for long duration, following care is to be taken: 1. Park the vehicle in covered, dry and if possible well-ventilated premises. Engage a gear. 2. Remove the battery terminal cables (first remove the cable from the neg- ative terminal). Ensure that battery is fully charged. 3. Block the wheel or engage in the gear mode. 4. Clean and protect the painted parts using protective wax. 5. Clean and protect the shiny metal parts using commercially available special compounds. 6. Sprinkle talcum powder on the rub- ber windscreen wiper and lift them off the glass. 10. 11. 12. Wiper blade lifting sequence during cleaning / replacing, first lift front passenger side wiper blade, then driver side

sequence during cleaning / replacing, first lift front passenger side wiper blade, then driver side blade. Slightly open the windows. Cover the vehicle with a cloth or per- forated plastic sheet. Do not use sheets of imperforated plastic as they do not allow moisture on the ve- hicle body to evaporate. Inflate the tyres to 0.5 bar above the normal specified pressure and check it at regular intervals. Check the battery charge every six weeks. Do not drain the engine cooling sys- tem. MAINTENANCE Exhaust After Treatment System Exhaust after treatment consists of be- low components: 1. Diesel Oxidation Catalyst (DOC) 2. Diesel Particulate Filter (DPF) 3. Selective Catalyst Reduction (SCR) 4. Various Sensors and Actuators. The exhaust gas coming from the engine first passes through the DOC and then through DPF. DPF is a filter, which filters carbon soot in the exhaust gas. DOC and DPF con- tains precious metals which converts hy- drocarbons, carbon monoxide etc. in the exhaust gas to

tains precious metals which converts hy- drocarbons, carbon monoxide etc. in the exhaust gas to harmless constituents. Additionally DPF also removes most of the carbon soot particles in the exhaust gas. The collected carbon soot in the DPF is regenerated to clean the filter. 223  MAINTENANCE In order to reduce the NOx levels even further, SCR system is used. In SCR sys- tem, DEF is injected in the exhaust stream. With the help of injected ammo- nia in the DEF, NOx is converted into harmless constituents. NOTE In order to control exhaust emis- sions, this vehicle is equipped with SCR system through which DEF (Diesel Exhaust Fluid) continuously flows. It is normal to have a noise from the SCR system during vehi- cle operation or for about 20 to 30 seconds after engine is switched off. 224 Regeneration Process DPF is a mechanical filter that physically traps particulate matter from diesel en- gine exhaust gas. DPF traps the particulate matter in the following way: e Filtration -

diesel en- gine exhaust gas. DPF traps the particulate matter in the following way: e Filtration - Particulates / soot are collected in the inlet channel of the filter. e Regeneration - When the filter chan- nels are filled up with soot, they are cleaned automatically by the engine management system. This process is known as DPF Regeneration and this will happen during normal running of the vehicle. In certain specific driving conditions, DPF regeneration may not happen auto- matically as the desired temperatures required to regenerate soot many not be achievable due to specific driving condi- tions. This may happen in prolonged driving at low vehicle speeds for consid- erable amount of time (driving in heavy city traffic), prolonged running of the en- gine in idle conditions, use of adulter- ated diesel etc. In such cases, a DPF warning lamp will be illuminated indicating that soot re- generation is insufficient DPF Lamp The lamp blinks constantly to indicate that the DPF needs to

generation is insufficient DPF Lamp The lamp blinks constantly to indicate that the DPF needs to eliminate the trapped pollutants (particulate matter) through the regeneration process, it therefore does not indicate a malfunc- tion. The lamp remains off during the en- tire DPF regeneration and it lamps up only when driving conditions require the driver to be notified. To switch off the lamp, keep the car running until regen- eration is complete (ideally at 3% gear, 60 kmph. with engine speed over 2000 rpm). The process normally takes about 20 minutes. ee  Note: Failure to obey the correct proce- dure for long distance when the DPF lamp comes ON can cause the warning lamp (MIL) to come ON. In that case, please contact nearest TATA authorized service center to restore correct DPF op- eration. Avoid parking of vehicle over inflam- mable materials, such as dry leaves; grass etc. as exhaust system is hot enough to initiate fire. e Ensure exhaust system is not blocked and is free from

system is hot enough to initiate fire. e Ensure exhaust system is not blocked and is free from obstruc- tion. e Blockages in the exhaust can cre- ate backpressure, low top speed, poor pick up, black smoke, car- bon build up and low mileage and can affect power output of the en- gine and the emission levels. The maximum sulphur content of the diesel fuel must not exceed 0.001% (10 parts per million). Fail- ure to comply with the standards may damage engine components and the exhaust after-treatment system. Diesel Exhaust Fluid (DEF) (if available) The vehicle is equipped with DEF injec- tion system and Selective Catalytic Re- duction (SCR) to meet emission stand- ards. MAINTENANCE DEF Storage DEF is a very stable product with a long shelf life. Stored at temperatures LOWER than 32°C, it has a shelf life of at least one year. NOTE DEF freezes at temperatures lower than -11°C. NOTE When working with DEF, it is im- portant to know that: e Any containers or parts that comes into contact

working with DEF, it is im- portant to know that: e Any containers or parts that comes into contact with DEF must be DEF compatible (plastic or stainless steel). Copper, brass, aluminum, iron or non-stainless steel should be avoided as they are subject to corrosion by DEF. e /f DEF is spilled, it should be wiped up completely. 225  MAINTENANCE Adding DEF Preliminary Conditions Consumption of the additive DEF de- pends on the condition of vehicle use and is indicated on the instrument clus- ter. DEF freezes at temperatures lower than -11°C. If the car stands for a long time at this temperature refilling could be diffi- cult. For this reason, it is advised to park the vehicle in a garage and/or heated environment and wait for the DEF to re- turn to liquid state before topping up. Proceed as follows: e Park the car on flat ground and stop the engine by placing the ignition in the OFF position. e DEF filler is located in the tailgate compartment below the tool kit tray. Open the tailgate

e DEF filler is located in the tailgate compartment below the tool kit tray. Open the tailgate and remove the tool kit tray and remove the cap from the DEF filler. 226 Never fill DEF or diesel fuel into the wrong filling ports. This may result serious damage to Engine, Fuel system and Emission system com- ponents. In case of wrongly filled do not start the engine, contact TATA Motors Authorised Service Centre. DEF Filler Tank DEF Refilling Procedure Conditions for refilling: Vehicle should be parked on a flat road surface Switch OFF the Engine and ignition should be in OFF position  DEF Quantity Refilling It is recommended that DEF tank is filled to full capacity. At least, a minimum of 8L of DEF should be filled. NOTE Do not switch on the key during refill operation if refill is not done in one attempt. After completing DEF filling in ignition key OFF condition, perform key ON and wait for about 3 minutes before cranking the engine. In case of engine stops after refill opera- tion,

for about 3 minutes before cranking the engine. In case of engine stops after refill opera- tion, wait for about 2 minutes in order to recognize DEF level by DEF System be- fore switching ON the key again. Ensure that DEF will be filled at room tempera- ture. Precautions While Refilling DEF Refilling With Nozzles You can fill up at any DEF Distributor/Re- tailer. Proceed as follows: e Insert the DEF nozzle in the filler, start refilling and stop refilling at the first shut-off (the shut-off indicates that the DEF tank is full). Do not pro- ceed with the refilling, to prevent spillage of DEF. e Extract the nozzle. Refilling With Containers Proceed as follows: e Check the expiration date and en- sure the validity of DEF. e Read the advice for use on the label before pouring the content of the bottle into the DEF tank. MAINTENANCE Fill DEF in the tank till tank is full. This will require around 15 liters of DEF. e Ensure Ignition is OFF during the en- tire DEF filling process. Once DEF

around 15 liters of DEF. e Ensure Ignition is OFF during the en- tire DEF filling process. Once DEF fill- ing process is complete, keep igni- tion key in ON position for around 2 - 3 minutes. e Ensure DEF level indication in instru- ment cluster is updated and DEF re- lated messages disappears. DEF should be filled with vehicle parked in a flat area. Please ensure that ignition is in OFF condition. In case the DEF is filled with vehicle parked in an inclined condition, DEF level updation may not happen. 227  MAINTENANCE Low DEF Level Warning Messages These messages will be indicated when DEF level is low. This can happen when vehicle runs without filling DEF in spite of message to fill DEF. e First warning message will be indi- cated at approximately in between 1500 — 2400 km before emptying of DEF tank at the current DEF con- sumption rate. “DEF LEVEL LOW, RE- FILL SOON” message will be indi- cated at this warning level. rpm x1000 DEF Level Low f NORMAL Refill Soon OK de bCieet-1H

be indi- cated at this warning level. rpm x1000 DEF Level Low f NORMAL Refill Soon OK de bCieet-1H ODO 256849 km 228 If the vehicle runs without filling DEF, next warning level will be indicated at approximately 600 km before empty- ing of DEF tank at current DEF con- sumption rate. “ENGINE STOPS IN 600 KM” message will be indicated at this warning level. This message will continue till DEF tank becomes empty with corresponding distance gradually reducing to 0 km. 9:32PM. » Engine Stops in XXKm Reflll DEF f@ NORMAL OK qT On further driving the vehicle without filling DEF, message “ENGINE WILL NOT RESTART IN NEXT KEY ON” will appear. rpm x1000 Boer Engine Will Not Restart @ NORMAL In Next Key On OK IF IH ODO 256849 km Level Low BB RANGE WXXX km ok e Message “ENGINE STOP TANK EMPTY” will be displayed once DEF tank is empty. ‘pm x1000 Engine Stop DEF Tank Empty f NORMAL OK I. 1H ODO 256849 km _ Level Low BRANGE Xxxxkm — .ECh Once the engine is stopped with this message, it will not be

km _ Level Low BRANGE Xxxxkm — .ECh Once the engine is stopped with this message, it will not be possible to restart the engine without filling DEF.  NOTE Please refer to DEF filling procedure for filling DEF. DEF Level Messages in case of SCR System Fault These messages will be indicated when there is any problem in the SCR system and SCR system fault is displayed. e Depending on the distance, the vehi- cle can run before emptying of DEF tank at the current DEF consumption rate. “SCR SYSTEM FAULT, ENGINE STOPS IN XXX KM” message will be indicated. pm x1000 Engine Stops in XX Km Contact service centre f@ NORMAL OK E sb Clemem=1H ODO 256849 km n Bem If the vehicle is run without rectifying the SCR system (through TML service cen- tre), warning message will continue with corresponding distance gradually reduc- ing to Okm. After this, engine will not start in the next ignition cycle. The vehicle has to be brought to TML service centre for rectifi- cation. MAINTENANCE » Engine Stops in XX

has to be brought to TML service centre for rectifi- cation. MAINTENANCE » Engine Stops in XX Km Check DEF System f@ NORMAL OK ib 1H ODO 255849 km Quality low B RANGE 00Xkm DEF Level Messages in case of Poor Quality DEF e Incase of use of poor quality of DEF, message “DEF QUALITY LOW, EN- GINE STOPS IN XXX KM” will appear. In such cases, currently filled DEF has to be drained completely and proper good quality DEF needs to be filled until DEF tank is full. Please refer to DEF filling proce- dure for filling DEF. Messages may vary slightly de- pending on the vehicle variant. 229  230  TECHNICAL INFORMATION Fuel Specification Fuel (Diesel) Normal grade BS VI compliant diesel conforming to 1$1460:2017 or equivalent is recommended to be used as fuel. Do not use premium diesel available in the market like extra premium / Turbojet etc. Recommended Fuel Specifications Parameter Unit BS VI Cetane Number (min) CN 51 Sulphur content mg/kg 10 Lubricity (HFRR) micron 460 NOTE It is mandatory to

Number (min) CN 51 Sulphur content mg/kg 10 Lubricity (HFRR) micron 460 NOTE It is mandatory to use Diesel fuel with recommended Sulphur contents as given above. Use of any other diesel fuel can increase the pollutants/damage the engine or exhaust after treatment system. 231  TECHNICAL INFORMATION Lubricant Specification Use following genuine fluids, coolants and lubricants recommended for optimum performance of your vehicle. Item Specificat Company Brand ty. Engine oil (Diesel) | OW20 ACEA C2 PETRONAS Tata Motors Genuine Oil Fully Synth OW20 5L Coolant (Pre4 SUNSTAR CCI Tata Motors Genuine Coolant 2200 mixed) (Antifreeze} Class II/JIS K2234 TL agent +Soft water] TATA SS7700S1 ANSYESCO Tata Motors Genuine Coolant Purocool++ Anchemo 40:60 ratio) Anand Manual Transaxle | PETRONAS ZC 601 | pETRONAS TATA Motors Genuine Transaxle oil HARRIER 4.9L Automatic Trans: ) ate spay Mt S-OIL TOTAL ATF SP-IV M1 7.82L mission Oil GOLDEN CRUISER | TATA Genuine Brake Fluid Brake / Clutch fluid | SAE J

SP-IV M1 7.82L mission Oil GOLDEN CRUISER | TATA Genuine Brake Fluid Brake / Clutch fluid | SAE J 1703, DOT 4 CASTROL Universal Brake fluid DOT 4 0.71L PETRONAS TUTELA Brake Fluid DOT 4 Power Steering oil | ATF-DEXRON III CASTROL ATF DEX Ill 1L Diesel Exhaust Solution confirms to Fluid (DEF) 1$022241 standards. | NPL TATA ORIGINAL D.E.F 15L Compressor Oil SP 10 SANDEN VIKAS SP10 COMPRESSOR OIL-SANDEN VIKAS-L 0.25 135cc Refrigerant - R134a= 500420 gms 232  Technical Specifications TECHNICAL INFORMATION Parameter Specifications Engine Model/type 2.0L KryoTec BSVI Capacity 1956 cc Max. Engine output 125 kW (170 PS) at 3750 rpm Max. Torque 350 Nm at 1750-2500 rpm Clutch Type Dry, Single Plate diaphragm type Outside diameter of clutch 240 mm Transaxle (MT) Model C635 Type Manual, 6-speed, Synchromesh No. Of gears 6 Forward, 1 Reverse Transaxle (AT) Model 6F33 Type Automatic, 6-speed, Planetary No. Of gears 6 Forward, 1 Reverse Steering Type Power assisted-Hydraulic with Tilt & Telescopic

No. Of gears 6 Forward, 1 Reverse Steering Type Power assisted-Hydraulic with Tilt & Telescopic mechanism and collapse feature 233  TECHNICAL INFORMATION Parameter Specifications Brakes Brakes Front (Disc); Rear (Drum) Parking Brakes Cable Operated mechanical Suspension Type Front: Independent lower wishbone MacPherson strut with coil spring Rear: Semi-independent Twist blade suspension with Panhard rod & coil spring Front: MacPherson strut Damper twin tube with gas filled Shock absorber Rear: Damper twin tube with gas filled Wheels & tyres For Front & Rear, Option 1 : 235 / 70 R16 105H (Radial-Tubeless) Tyres Option 2: 235 / 65 R17 104H (Radial-Tubeless) For Spare wheel, (16 Inch) : 235/70 R16 106S (Radial, Tubeless) Option 1: 6.5J X 16 steel wheel Wheel rims Option 2 : 7.5J X 17 alloy wheel Fuel tank Capacity 50 liters DEF tank Capacity 15 liters 234  TECHNICAL INFORMATION Parameter | Specifications Cab / body Type Monocoque Electrical system System voltage 12 Volts Alternator

| Specifications Cab / body Type Monocoque Electrical system System voltage 12 Volts Alternator capacity 150 Amp Battery 12V, 78 Ah Main chassis dimension (in mm) Wheel base 2741 Track front 1616 Track rear 1630 Overall length 4598 Overall height 1706 Max. Width 1894 over body Min. Ground clearance (Laden) 150 235  TECHNICAL INFORMATION Parameter Specifications Performance Max. Speed 170 kmph Max. Recommended gradability 35% Minimum Turning Circle Dia. in meters 11.6m Minimum Turning Clearance circle dia. 122m in meters Weight (in kg) 1655 (XE) 1663 (XM) 1668 (XT) 1680 (XZ Kerb weight (unladen) 1710 0) 1688 Min) 1705 (XZA) 1719 (XZA+) 2130 (XE) 2138 (XM) ; 2143 (XT) 2155 (XZ) Gross vehicle weight 2185 (XZ+) 2163 (XMA) 2180 (XZA) 2194 (XZA+) 236  TECHNICAL INFORMATION Vehicle Dimensions NOTE: Dimensions are in mm Unladen condition 237  TECHNICAL INFORMATION Aggregate Identification Numbers Chassis No. punching near driver seat Transaxle No. Punching (MT) — - (RHS) Transmission Sticker

Chassis No. punching near driver seat Transaxle No. Punching (MT) — - (RHS) Transmission Sticker number (AT) 238  Car Care Your vehicle is subjected to many exter- nal influences such as climate, road con- ditions, industrial pollution and proximity to the sea. These conditions demand regular care of the vehicle body. Dirt, in- sects, bird droppings, oil, grease, fuel and stone chippings should be removed as soon as possible. Washing Following these tips while washing your vehicle. 1. Always wash your vehicle in shade and the surface is at room tempera- ture. 2. Wash with mild vehicle wash soap like ‘Car Shampoo’ and use a soft bristle brush, sponge or soft cloth and rinse it frequently while washing to avoid scratches. 3. To avoid scratches, please wear soft gloves. Remove finger rings, nails, wrist watch while washing. CAR CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES 4. To remove stubborn stains and con- taminants like tar, use turpentine or cleaners like ‘Stain remover’ which are safe for paint

con- taminants like tar, use turpentine or cleaners like ‘Stain remover’ which are safe for paint surfaces. 5. Avoid substances like petrol, diesel, kerosene, benzene, thinner, acids or other solvents that cause damage to paint. 6. Dry your vehicle thoroughly to pre- vent any damp spots. 7. Rinse all surfaces thoroughly to pre- vent any traces of soap and other cleaners as this may lead to the for- mation of stains on the painted sur- face later. NOTE e Avoid parking the car under trees without proper cover, it will reduce the amount of bird drop- pings, tree sap and pollen con- tact on paint surface. Regularly remove the twigs, leaves and vegetation near the windshield areas, to avoid water stagna- tion. e Always close the sunroof while washing the vehicle. Do not direct high pressure washer fluid/ water jets (Pressure above 0.5 bar) at electrical devices and connecter during washing. This is to prevent malfunction / failure of electrical system due to water in- gress. After drying

This is to prevent malfunction / failure of electrical system due to water in- gress. After drying the vehicle, inspect it for chips and scratches that could allow cor- rosion to start. Apply touch up paint where necessary. Cleaning of Carpets Vacuum clean the carpet regularly to re- move dirt. Dirt will make the carpet wear out faster. Periodically, shampoo the carpet to keep it looking new. Use carpet cleaners (preferably foam type). Follow the instructions that come with the cleaner. Apply it with a sponge 239  CAR CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES or soft brush. Keep the carpeting as dry as possible by not adding water to the foam. NOTE Avoid wiping of painted surface in dry condition as it may leave scratches on the painted surface. Cleaning of Windows, Front and Rear Glasses Clean the windows inside and outside with commercially available glass clean- ers. This will remove the haze that builds up on the inside of windows. Use a soft cloth or paper towels to clean all glass and

that builds up on the inside of windows. Use a soft cloth or paper towels to clean all glass and plastic surfaces. 240 FAST TAG FAST TAG is pasted on front windshield from the inside. It enables Electronic toll collection. => FAasiag NOTE Do not attempt to rip or tamper the tag. It will disable the functionality of the tag. Waxing Waxing and polishing is recommended to maintain the gloss and wet-look ap- pearance of your paint finish. 1. Use good quality polish and wax for your vehicle. 2. Re-wax your vehicle when the water does not slip off the surface but col- lects over the surface in patches. Polishing Polishes and cleaners can restore shine to the painted surface that has oxidized and become dull. They normally contain mild abrasives and solvents that remove the top layer of the finish coat. Polish your vehicle, if the finish does not regain its original shine after using wax. Interior Fabric Cleaning Tips 1. Stains should be treated immedi- ately. If left for a long time, they

Fabric Cleaning Tips 1. Stains should be treated immedi- ately. If left for a long time, they can leave a permanent mark. 2. Cleaning the stains immediately is important especially for stains, which contain artificial colors in the stain creating liquid or semisolid sub- stance. The colorant may leave a stain if kept for longer time. 3. Stain should not be removed by rub- bing. As far as possible, try to blot or lift the stain with cloth or plastic spat- ula and then clean the remaining stain with cloth or sponge.  4. If the stain has dried, then gently brush off the material and then press with damp cloth or sponge till it dis- appears. 5. Do not use household detergents to clean the fabric. 6. Always use clean cotton cloth for cleaning. Paint Care Following guidelines will help you to pro- tect your vehicle from corrosion effec- tively. Avoid spillage or direct contact of air freshener liquid/ chemicals to interior painted plastic parts. These chemicals may cause dam- age to paint

liquid/ chemicals to interior painted plastic parts. These chemicals may cause dam- age to paint like blisters, peel off, wrinkles etc. CAR CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES Proper Cleaning In order to protect your vehicle from cor- rosion it is recommended that you wash your vehicle thoroughly and frequently in case: e There is a heavy accumulation of dirt and mud especially on the under- body. e It is driven in areas having high at- mospheric pollution due to smoke, soot, dust, iron dust and other chem- ical pollutants. e Itis driven in coastal areas. e The underbody must be thoroughly pressure washed after every three months. In addition to regularly washing your car, the following precautions need to be taken. Periodic Inspection e Regularly inspect your vehicle for any damage in the paint film such as deep scratches and immediately get them repaired from an authorized service outlet, as these defects tend to accelerate corrosion. e Inspect mud liners for damages. e Keep all drain

as these defects tend to accelerate corrosion. e Inspect mud liners for damages. e Keep all drain holes clear from clog- ging. Proper Parking e Always park your vehicle in shade to protect it from harsh sunlight or in a well-ventilated garage so that there is no dampness on any part of the ve- hicle. Wiper Care e To prevent damage to the wipers or windshield, do not operate the wip- ers when the windshield is dry. e To prevent damage to the wiper arms and other components, do not at- tempt to move the wipers manually 241  CAR CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES Value Care —- AMC Value Care (AMC) is a fixed cost maintenance plan that guarantees protection against unex- TATA MOTORS | SERVICE pected repairs & provides substantial savings through protection against inflation & price vol- BEST VALUE atility of consumables during the running of the vehicle. Our customers can choose from Value Care Gold, Value Care Silver, Promise to Protect (P2P) and Protect plus plan as per the requirement &

Gold, Value Care Silver, Promise to Protect (P2P) and Protect plus plan as per the requirement & usage to ensure hassle free, reliable & economic maintenance of the vehicle. Coverage - Schedule Service and Wear & Tear. Advantage (Customer Benefits) VALUE CARE Price protection against rising prices of lubes and parts. MAINTENANCE PLANS A higher resale value for your vehicle. Peace of mind with Cashless repairs & services. Vehicle servicing at a workshop of your choice pan India. Covers Repairs including Wear & Tear parts viz. Brakes, Suspension, Wiper, Clutch, Brake Pads, Brake Liners etc. Covers Scheduled maintenance services including Lubricants, Parts, Wheel Alignment and Balancing Labour. Available at unmatched value.... Huge Savings!!! Savings on Goods & Services Tax whenever vehicle attend under AMC. 242  CAR CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES Available Offers (Types of AMC) e = Silver AMC e = Gold AMC e Promise to Protect (P2P) e Protect Plus Silver AMC Value Care Silver Plan covers

AMC e = Gold AMC e Promise to Protect (P2P) e Protect Plus Silver AMC Value Care Silver Plan covers the following: Scheduled maintenance services at periodic interval of Km for Labor, Parts & Consumables. Change of Oil Filter, Fuel Filter, Air Filter & Sedimenter. Change of Engine Oil, Transmission Oil (if applicable), and Power steering Oil*. Change of Coolant, Brake Oil & Clutch Fluid*. General Checkup, Wheel Alignment / Balancing (Excluding Balancing Weight). Washing of Vehicle, Wheel greasing as applicable. Gold AMC 92979 @ The value care Gold Plan extends your scheduled maintenance cover to include any normal wear and tear items identified during the scheduled service and other vehicle parts that need to replace during the period of cover arising from proper and uniform usage. e Scheduled maintenance services at periodic interval of Km for Labor, Parts & Consumables. 243  CAR CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES In addition to coverage mentioned under Silver AMC, the Gold AMC also

CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES In addition to coverage mentioned under Silver AMC, the Gold AMC also covers Repairs or Replacement of Wear & Tear Items for both Parts & Labour. a. Brake Pads, Brake Liners, Wheel Cylinders. b. Clutch Disc, Clutch Cover, Cables, Mountings. c. Suspension Bush, Wiper Blades, Auxiliary Belt & other Wear & Tear Items. d. Washing of Vehicle, Wheel greasing as applicable. Promise to Protect (P2P) Value Care - Promise to protect (P2P) is a maintenance plan that guarantees protection against unexpected wear & tear repairs to provide substantial saving through protection against inflation & price volatility during the running of the vehicle. New Vehicle (under warranty vehicles) are eligible to avail this offer -Identified 13 wear & tear parts listed below Including Labour is covered in this AMC with the price range of 11 to 14 paisa per Km. *applicable to selected models* List of Covered Parts- Clutch, Brake Pad, Brake Linings, Brake Disc, Wiper, Wheel Cylinder,

models* List of Covered Parts- Clutch, Brake Pad, Brake Linings, Brake Disc, Wiper, Wheel Cylinder, Suspension Bushes, Engine Mount- ings, Ball Joints, Hoses, Auxiliary Belt, (Alternator & A/C Belt), Window Winder. Protect Plus The value care Protect plus Plan extends your scheduled maintenance cover to include coverage of P2P. It covers scheduled maintenance services - labour, parts & consumables + Identified 13 wear & tear parts of P2P plan Including Labour. New Vehicle (under warranty vehicles) are eligible to avail this offer. *Applicable to selected models* 244  CAR CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES e AMCis available in the dealership from where you have purchased your vehicle. e We strongly recommend purchase of AMC at time of purchase of your vehicle to get benefit for coverage of Scheduled Services and Wear & Tear parts. e The Dealer Service Marketing Executive shall explain to you the Terms and conditions, Coverage and Owner's responsi- bility. One Time payment is to be made to

the Terms and conditions, Coverage and Owner's responsi- bility. One Time payment is to be made to avail AMC offer. P2P & Protect plus offer valid on selected models & may vary from Model to Model, Variant to Variant. Please read the offer eBooklet for further details about coverage and exclusions of various AMCs. Owner’s Responsibility: e Proper use, maintenance and care of the vehicle in accordance with the instructions contained in the Owner’s Manual and Service Booklet. The records of the same to be ensured in Owner’s Manual. e Retention of maintenance service bills. | / We have been explained the Terms and conditions, Coverage and Owner’s responsibility by the Dealer Service Marketing Executive. oO | wish to avail / O Do not wish to avail extended warrant policy. Customer’s Signature Dealer’s Signature 245  CAR CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES Extended Warranty TATA MOTORS recommends the purchase of its extended warranty program. Coverage - Mechanical + Electrical TATA MOTORS |

the purchase of its extended warranty program. Coverage - Mechanical + Electrical TATA MOTORS | SERVICE ; TATA BEST VALUE Benefits e Insures you against unforeseen break down repair bills. e Documentation is simple and hassle free. e Near cashless & speedy claim ‘ EXTENDED 2+1 Year or 1,15,000 Km whichever occurs first WARRANTY OR UP TO 4 YEARS 2+2 Year or 1,30,000 Km whichever occurs first OR 2+3 Year for Unlimited Km Extended Warranty is available in the dealership from where you have purchased your vehicle. We strongly recommend purchase of Extended Warranty at time of purchase of your vehicle. Extended Warranty can be availed until warranty period from date of purchase of vehicle. The Dealer Service Marketing Executive shall explain to you the Terms and conditions, Coverage and Owner’s responsibility. 246  CAR CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES Note e The 12 or 24 or 36 months extended warranty does not follow the 24 months Manufacturer's warranty. e The extended warranty comes into

warranty does not follow the 24 months Manufacturer's warranty. e The extended warranty comes into force once the manufacturer’s warranty expires e.g. after 24 Months. e It is more restrictive as by the time it comes into force the vehicle is already 24 months old. What is covered? e Mechanical / Electrical break down as defined in this warranty and confirmed by the dealer within the stipulated terms and conditions. e TATA MOTORS dealer shall either repair or replace any part found to be defective with a new part or an equivalent at no cost to the owner for parts or labour. e Such defective parts which have been replaced will become property of TATA MOTORS LIMITED. e Comprehensive list of parts covered is mentioned in the Extended Warranty Booklet. What is not covered? Please refer the digital Extended Warranty booklet provided by the dealer for details of the exclusion list. Owner’s Responsibility: e Proper use, maintenance and care of the vehicle in accordance with the instructions

e Proper use, maintenance and care of the vehicle in accordance with the instructions contained in the Owner’s Manual and Service Booklet. The records of the same to be ensured in Owner’s Manual. e Retention of maintenance service bills. | / We have been explained the Terms and conditions, Coverage and Owner's responsibility by the Dealer Service Marketing Executive. oO | wish to avail / O Do not wish to avail extended warrant policy. Customer’s Signature Dealer’s Signature 247  CAR CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES Value Added Services Why are Corrosion Protection Waxes neces- sary? — WURTH BARDAHL AUt@-6 a Corrosion is caused by: Water / salt water acid rain & atmospheric fallouts. CAR CARE Critical areas are: Cavities: joints, crevices, spot welds, underbody e Corrosion is the most important factor when we talk about the vehicle life. If you treat your car you can prolong the life. e Itis very dangerous to drive around in a corroded vehicle. e The corrosion creeps onto the vehicle from

very dangerous to drive around in a corroded vehicle. e The corrosion creeps onto the vehicle from the inside and from the outside. The most dangerous kind of corrosion is often not discovered until it is too late. Benefits of Anti - Rust treatment: e A professionally applied range of world class products offering real value to the new and used vehicle customer. e The treatment has been developed to withstand the harshest environmental and climatic conditions (rust. Pollutants, stone and gravel impact, etc.) e Insulate cabin space from external noises. e Expensive tin work and Denting / Painting avoided. e Higher resale value for the vehicle. e Higher safety - uncorroded vehicle e 10 free checkups available 248  CAR CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES TATA MOTORS has tied up with M/s Wurth, M/s Autokrom, M/s 3M India Ltd & M/s Bardahl for these world class treatment at affordable prices. These treatments are available in all authorized workshops. The Dealer Service Marketing Executive will

treatments are available in all authorized workshops. The Dealer Service Marketing Executive will explain to you the benefits and terms and conditions of this treatment. | /We have been explained the Benefits, Terms and conditions and the prices of these treatments by the Dealer Service Marketing Executive. O | wish to avail /LJ Do not wish to avail extended warrant policy. Customer’s Signature Dealer’s Signature 249  CAR CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES Vehicle Exterior Enrichment | = | == ey WURTH Why vehicles are painted? e For Corrosion protection of the metal surfaces. ‘ e Ease of application from other corrosion protection treatments. Auta ™ e Cheaper than other corrosion protection methods eg. Galvanizing, ano- ron dizing. e Fordecoration and identification. CAR CARE Various Environmental Hazards affecting paints Environmental hazards: destroy your vehicle's finish. Even as your new vehicle rolls off the assembly line, the paint is not protected. The enemy Ultraviolet Rays,

new vehicle rolls off the assembly line, the paint is not protected. The enemy Ultraviolet Rays, Pollution, Tree Sap, Bird Droppings, Car Wash Chemicals, Road Salt, Acid Rain. Benefits: Vehicle Exterior Enrichment e Removal of medium scratches, orange peel, oxidation, dust nibs etc. & swirl marks from painted surface. e Restoration of original gloss levels, UV protection after gloss is restored. e Cleaning & dressing of tyres, Bumpers & all exterior plastic moldings/trims. TATA MOTORS has tied up with M/s Autokrom, M/s 3M & M/s Wurth for this world class treatment at affordable prices. This treatment is available in all authorized workshops. The Dealer Service Marketing Executive will explain to you the benefits and terms and conditions of this treatment. 250  CAR CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES Vehicle Interior Enrichment Why protect your new car’s fabric interior? e Someone will spoil your vehicle's fabric carpet or seats. e Asignificant detractor from your vehicle's resale value. e

your vehicle's fabric carpet or seats. e Asignificant detractor from your vehicle's resale value. e Apermanent stain on your vehicle's interior fabric. The enemy: Drink Spills - Food Stains - Mud - Ultraviolet Rays Pets - Traffic Benefits: Vehicle Interior Enrichment e Removal of medium stains and dirt from all interior parts of the car i.e., carpet, upholstery and roof lining. e Cleaning of windshield and all windows (inside and outside). e Dressing of all internal plastics (e.g.: door pad trims) and rubber parts. e The treatment involves cleaning and dressing of all parts of the exposed interiors. e Specialised protection for seat fabric from liquid spills. TATA MOTORS has tied up with M/s Wurth and M/s Autokrom for this world class treatment at affordable prices. This treatment is available in all authorized workshops. The Dealer Service Marketing Executive will explain to you the benefits and terms and conditions of this treatment. | / We have been explained the Terms and

the benefits and terms and conditions of this treatment. | / We have been explained the Terms and conditions, Coverage and Owner’s responsibility by the Dealer Service Marketing Executive. O | wish to avail /O) Do not wish to avail extended warrant policy. Customer’s Signature Dealer’s Signature 251  252  Vehicle Warranty: Terms and conditions We WARRANT each TATA HARRIER vehicle and parts thereof manufactured by us to be free from defect in material and workmanship subject to the following terms and conditions: 1. This warranty shall be for a period of 2 years from the date of sale of the car or a mileage of 1, 00,000 Kms which- ever occurs earlier. Our obligation under this warranty shall be limited to repair- ing or replacing, free of charge, such parts of the car which, in our opinion, are defective, on the car being brought to us or to our dealers within the period. The parts so repaired or replaced shall also be warranted for quality and workman- ship but such warranty shall be

or replaced shall also be warranted for quality and workman- ship but such warranty shall be co-terminus with this origi- nal warranty. Any part which is found to be defective and is replaced by us under the warranty shall be our property. As for such parts as Tyres, Batteries, Audio and / or Video equipment (if any), etc. not manufactured by us but sup- plied by other parties, this warranty shall not apply, but buy- ers of the car shall be entitled to, so far as permissible by law, all such rights as we may have against such parties under their warranties in respect of such parts. WARRANTY - TERMS AND CONDITIONS 5. This warranty shall not apply if the car or any part thereof is repaired or altered otherwise than in accordance with our standard repair procedure or by any person other than from our sales or service establishments, our authorized deal- ers, service centres or service points in any way so as, in our judgment which shall be final and binding, to affect its reliability,

in any way so as, in our judgment which shall be final and binding, to affect its reliability, nor shall it apply if, in our opinion which shall be final and binding, the car is subjected to misuse, negli- gence, improper or inadequate maintenance or accident or loading in excess of such carrying capacity as certified by us, or such services as prescribed in our Owner's Manual are not carried out by the buyer through our sales or service establishments, our authorized dealers, service centres or service points. This warranty shall not apply to the replacement of nor- mal wear parts, including without limitation, drive belts, hoses, wiper blades, fuses, clutch disc, brake shoes, brake pads, cables and all rubber parts (except oil seal and glass run). This warranty shall not cover any inherent normal deterio- ration of the car or any of its parts arising from the actual use of the car or any damage due to negligent or improper operation or storage of the car. 253  WARRANTY - TERMS AND

any damage due to negligent or improper operation or storage of the car. 253  WARRANTY - TERMS AND CONDITIONS 8. 10. 11 This warranty shall not apply to normal maintenance ser- vices like oils & fluid changes, head lamps focusing, fas- tener retightening, center hub cap/wheel cover. wheel bal- ancing and alignment, tyre rotation, adjustment of valve clearance, fuel timing, ignition timing and consumables like bulbs, fuel, air & oil filters and gas leaks in case of air con- ditioned cars. This warranty shall not apply to any damage or deteriora- tion caused by environmental pollution or bird droppings. Slight irregularities not recognized as affecting the function or quality of the vehicle or parts, such as slight noise or vi- bration, defects appearing only under particular or irregular operations are items considered characteristics of the ve- hicle. This warranty shall be null and void if the car is subjected to abnormal use such as rallying, racing or participation in any other

void if the car is subjected to abnormal use such as rallying, racing or participation in any other competitive sport. This warranty shall not apply to any repair or replacements as a result of accident or col- lision. . This warranty is expressly in lieu of all warranties, whether by law or otherwise, expressed or implied, and all other ob- ligations or liabilities on our part and we neither assume, nor authorize any person to assume on our behalf, any 254 12. 13. 14. 15. other liability arising from the sale of the car or any agree- ment in relation thereto. The buyer shall have no other rights except those set out above and have, in particular, no right to repudiate the sale, or any agreement or to claim any reduction in the purchase price of the car, or to demand any damages or compensa- tion for losses, incidental or indirect, or inconvenience or consequential damages, loss of car, or loss of time, or oth- erwise, incurred or accrued. Any claim arising from this warranty shall be

or loss of time, or oth- erwise, incurred or accrued. Any claim arising from this warranty shall be recognized only if it is notified in writing to us or to our authorized dealer without any delay soon after such defects as cov- ered & ascertained under this warranty. This warranty is fully transferable to subsequent vehi- cle owner. Only unexpired remaining period of war- ranty applies. We reserve our rights to make any change or modification in design of the car or its parts or to introduce any improve- ment therein or to incorporate in the car any additional part or accessory at any time without incurring any obligation to incorporate the same in the cars previously sold.  TATA MOTORS LTD. is committed to produce vehicles using en- vironmentally sustainable technology. A number of features have been incorporated in TATA MOTORS passenger vehicles which have been designed to ensure environmental compati- bility throughout the life cycle of the vehicle. We would like to inform you

environmental compati- bility throughout the life cycle of the vehicle. We would like to inform you that your vehicle meets emission norms and this is being regularly validated at the manufacturing stages. As a user you too can protect the environment by operating your vehicle in a proactive manner. A lot depends on your driv- ing style and the way you maintain your vehicle. We have given a few tips for your guidance. Driving > Avoid frequent and violent acceleration. > Do not carry any unnecessary weight in the vehicle as it overloads the engine. Avoid using devices requiring high power consumption during slow city traffic condition. Vv Monitor the vehicle’s fuel consumption regularly and if showing rising trend get the car immediately attended at the Company’s Authorised Service Outlets. > Switch off the engine during long stops at traffic jams or signals. If you need to keep the engine running, avoid un- necessary revving it up or stopping and starting. > > ENVIRONMENT SAFETY It is

running, avoid un- necessary revving it up or stopping and starting. > > ENVIRONMENT SAFETY It is not necessary to rev up the engine before turning it off as it unnecessarily burns the fuel. Shift to higher gears as soon as possible. Use each gear upto 2/3rd of maximum engine speed. Achart indicating gear shifting speeds is given in this book. Maintenance > > Ensure that recommended maintenance is carried out on the vehicle regularly at the Authorised Service Outlets. As soon as you see any leakages of oil or fuel in the vehicle we recommend to get it attended immediately. Use only recommended grades and specified quantity o' lubricants. Get your vehicle checked for emission periodically by an au- thorised dealer. Ensure that fuel filter, oil filter and breather are checke periodically and replaced, if required, as recommended by TATA MOTORS. Do not pour used oils or coolants into the sewage drains, garden soil or open streams. Dispose the used filters an batteries in compliance with

drains, garden soil or open streams. Dispose the used filters an batteries in compliance with the current legislation. 255  ENVIRONMENT SAFETY > Do not allow unauthorized person to tamper with engine settings or to carry modifications on the vehicle. Never allow the vehicle to run out of fuel. Parts like brake liners, clutch discs should be vacuum cleaned. Do not use compressed air for cleaning these parts which may spread dust in the atmosphere. While carrying out servicing or repairs of your vehicle, you should pay keen attention to some of the important engine aggregates and wiring harness which greatly affect emis- sion. These components are: 1. ONOaAr WN Fuel injection equipment- pump, rail, injectors, nozzles and high-pressure pipes. Air Intake & Exhaust system, especially for leakages. Cylinder head for valve leakage. All filters such as air, oil and fuel filters (check periodically). Turbocharger. EGR Valve & Cooler Intake throttle Electrical connections. 256 9. If the ‘Check

Turbocharger. EGR Valve & Cooler Intake throttle Electrical connections. 256 9. If the ‘Check Engine lamp’, ‘MIL’ , 'SCR' or ‘DPF’ lamp con- tinuously glows, please take the vehicle to a TATA MOTORS Authorized Dealer/Service Center. 10. Exhaust After Treatment System parts. 11. EMS wiring harness i.e. electrical connections to all sen- sors and actuators. This Owner’s manual contains further information on driving precautions and maintenance care leading to environment protection. Please familiarize yourself with these aspects be- fore driving.  TATA MOTORS @p TATA Connecting Aspirations SUV OWNERS UNITED LEAGUE SOUL - SUV OWNER’S UNITED LEAGUE. JOIN TODAY!! Become a part of the Exclusive Tata SUV Owner's Community - SOUL and join the fellow Explorers to escape your day to day routine and ignite your Spirit of Adventure by participating in Exciting Expeditions and Discovering Unexplored Destinations. What’s more? You also get to avail exciting benefits and privileges specially curated

Destinations. What’s more? You also get to avail exciting benefits and privileges specially curated to enrich your journey with your Tata SUV. To register, visit our website www.soul.tatamotors.com or call - 1800-209-8282 To #DriveWithSOUL, follow us on: /soul_tatamotors_official /officialtatamotorscars /TataMotors_Cars ‘TataMotorsGroup

