CAR IDENTIFICATION RECORD OWNER’S NAME : . Following items are provided ADDRESS: with your vehicle: SELLING DEALER CODE : 1. Owner’s Manual DATE OF DELIVERY : 2. Aux.Battery Warranty Card DATE OF REGISTRATION : (if applicable) REGISTRATION NO : 3. First Aid Kit MOTOR NO: 4. Advance Warning Triangle 5. Jack CHASSIS NO : . . 6. Spare Fuses (Provided in fuse TRANSAXLE NO : box) 7. Tool Kit AUX. BATTERY MAKE : 3 ; AUX.BATTERY SR. NO: Siew Gere ig Gaus AUX. BATTERY CODE : KEY NO.: THE WARRANTY ON THIS VEHICLE IS VALID ONLY IF THE DETAILS ARE FILLED, SIGNED AND STAMPED BY THE SELLING DEALER DEALER’S SIGNATURE AND STAMP  <p TATA NEXON EY OWNER’S MANUAL TATA MOTORS REV 00 / NOV 2023  CUSTOMER ASSISTANCE In our constant endeavour to provide assistance and _ For updated information related to Dealer Network refer link complete service backup, TATA MOTORS has established an all _https://nexonev.tatamotors.com/find-dealer/ India cus-tomer assistance centre. TATA MOTORS 24X7 Roadside Assistance

India cus-tomer assistance centre. TATA MOTORS 24X7 Roadside Assistance Program offers In case you have a query regarding any aspect of your vehicle, technical help in the event of a breakdown. Call the toll-free our Customer Assistance Centre will be glad to assist you on our Road-side Assistance. Toll Free no. 1800 209 8282 For additional information, refer to "24X7 Roadside Assistance" You can also approach nearest TATA MOTORS dealer. section in the Owner's manual. Re? p ane ©) or 4 cOOnaES QUICK REPAIR REFINISHING SOLUTIONS. BODY & PAINT A DIAGNOSTIC EXTENDED VALUE CARE OSALITN{ SERVICE be WARRANTY RAPID REPAIR esiaradateat eta  FOREWORD Dear Customer, Welcome to the TATA MOT ORS family, Thank you on the purchase of TATA MOT ORS vehicle. As a global Indian automobile manufacturer, we focus on innovation, technology and build high quality products with exceeding values of “Connecting Aspirations”. The Owner’s Manual will familiarize you with the operations, equipment description,

Aspirations”. The Owner’s Manual will familiarize you with the operations, equipment description, features that are either as standard or optional on your vehicle. It is requested you read this manual carefully and follow the instructions and recommendations as mentioned. You are advised to carry out service, maintenance and repairs at TATA MOTORS Dealers and Authorized service centers through out the life of your vehicle. Always use genuine parts for continued performance of your vehicle. Avoid modification, non-genuine accessories fitment on your vehicle. TATA MOTORS does not carry any liability arising due to it. Always keep this manual in the vehicle. You can contact our dealer or Customer Assistance toll free no.(1800 209 8282) in case of any query or support required. Information provided in this Owner’s Manual is explicit at the time of publication. However, as TATAMOTORS continues to make changes and improve products, it reserves the right to make changes in this manual or any

to make changes and improve products, it reserves the right to make changes in this manual or any product at any time, without notice and without any obligations. We look forward for your continued association with us for many years to come. Wishing you a Safe and pleasant driving experience. TATA PASSENGER ELECTRIC MOBILITY LTD. Floor 3, 4, Plot-18, Nanavati Mahalaya,Mudhana Shetty Marg, BSE, Fort, Mumbai, (MH - 400 001, India © Copyright 2023 TATA MOTORS All rights reserved, may not be copied, translated or reproduced in whole or in part without written permission from TATAMOTORS iii   CONTENTS 01. INTRODUCTION TO EV Types Of Charging 47 EV Overview 4 Charging Do’s And Don'ts 65 Overview 5 V2X Charging 66 Important Information 10 Keys 74 Seats 11 Types of Keys 75 Seat Belts 13 Doors 78 Anti-lock Braking System (ABS) 33 Windows 80 Guideline For Preventing Fire And Electric 36 Bonnet And Charging Flap 81 Shock Tail Gate Opening 83 Anti-theft Device-immobilizer/ PEPS 38 06. INSTRUMENT

Charging Flap 81 Shock Tail Gate Opening 83 Anti-theft Device-immobilizer/ PEPS 38 06. INSTRUMENT CLUSTER 03. BATTERY AND COMPONENT Digital Display (7” Inch)(If equipped) 86 HV Battery System 39 Driver Information System (DIS) 89 Tips To Conserve Battery Life 41 Digital Display (10.25” Inch ) 107 Driver Information System (DIS) 111 Instructions To Follow 43 Display Messages On Instrument Cluster 129 Important Tips 46 Audio Reminders 130  CONTENTS 07. STARTING AND DRIVING Infotainment System Display 194 Driving Tips 132 MIC (if equipped) 195 Electric Power Assisted Steering (epas) 133 Speakers & Tweeter (if equipped) 196 Before You Start EV 134 USB Port(if equipped) 196 Tips To Get Maximum Range While Driving EV 137 Power Socket 197 Drive And Gear Modes 142 Antenna 198 Operating of Lights and Wipers: 145 Lamps 198 Seats Adjustments 148 Head Lamp And Tail Lamp 199 Mirror 154 Roof Grab Handle 202 Driving Support System 157 Vehicle Telematics 202 Automatic Vehicle Hold (if equipped) 176

202 Driving Support System 157 Vehicle Telematics 202 Automatic Vehicle Hold (if equipped) 176 Wireless Power Charging (if equipped) 203 Climate Control 179 Storage Compartment 210 Fully Automatic Temperature Control FACT) 181 Glove Box 211 (if equipped) Driver Side Coin Box 212 Cabin Air Purification 185 Utility Pockets on Front Doors 212 Fascia Switches 185 Utility Pockets on Rear Doors 212 Power Sunroof 186 Center Console 213 Steering Mounted Controls (if equipped) 192 Foldable Arm Rest (if equipped) 213 vi  CONTENTS Luggage Compartment 214 Aggregate Identification 263 Hooks (if equipped) 214 Luggage Compartment Cover 216 12. MAINTENANCE AND CARE Roof Rail 216 Service Instructions 264 Service Schedule 265 10. EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN Motor Compartment 271 Emergency Equipment 217 Brake Fluid Level 274 Spare Wheel Removal Process 218 Windshield Washer Fluid Level 274 In Case of Flat Tyre 219 12v Battery 275 Puncture Repair Kit Option 1 (if equipped) 221 Tyres 277 Puncture Repair Kit

219 12v Battery 275 Puncture Repair Kit Option 1 (if equipped) 221 Tyres 277 Puncture Repair Kit Option 2 (if equipped) 228 Vehicle Parking for Long Duration (non - Use 281 Towing 235 Maintenance) Fuses 236 Smart Key Battery Replacement (For PEPS 281 variant) Bulb Specifications 252 . : On Board Diagnostic (OBD II) System 283 24 X 7 Road Assistance 253 Do It Yourself 284 Car Care 284 11. TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS ; . — Value Added Services 288 Eubiicantspeciications Zo8 Vehicle Interior Enrichment 290 Vehicle Specifications 259 Vehicle Dimensions 262 vii  CONTENTS 13. WARRANTY Vehicle Warranty: Terms And Conditions 291 14, EXTENDED WARRANTY Extended Warranty 293 viii  EV OVERVIEW An electric vehicle is powered by a battery - Edrive and it does not need any type of fossil fuel. While conventional vehicles use an internal combustion engine and gaso- line or diesel as fuel, electric vehicles use electrical energy that is stored inside the high voltage battery. As a result, electric

use electrical energy that is stored inside the high voltage battery. As a result, electric vehicles run on electricity, they are eco- friendly - they do not require fuel and are zero emission vehicles. Review and Characteristics This is an electric vehicle. Some of the ve- hicle’s systems operate differently and have different operating characteristics than vehicles equipped with an internal combustion engine. It is important to care- fully read the entire Owner’s Manual for this reason. This Vehicle uses two types of battery sys- tems- a high voltage system in which a high voltage battery powers the inverter and electric motor which in turn propel the vehicle and a low voltage system in which a 12-volt battery provides power to the ve- hicle systems and features such as the audio system, supplementary restraint systems, headlights and _ wind-shield wipers. The high voltage battery also charges the 12-volt battery. The high voltage battery must be charged with electricity before the

charges the 12-volt battery. The high voltage battery must be charged with electricity before the vehicle can be driven. As the vehicle operates, the battery gradually discharges and when completely discharged, the vehicle needs to be plugged in for charging. To increase the range of the EV, regenerative braking has been incorporated. Basically, while the ve- hicle is coasting or braking, the motor works as a generator and converts the ve- hicle motion (kinetic energy) to electrical energy to charge the HV battery. This vehicle is considered to be an envi- ronmentally friendly vehicle because it does not emit exhaust gases, and thus is cleaner than the conventional vehicles in terms of air pollution. INTRODUCTION TO EV Main Components 3 IN 1 Unit ¢ On-Board Charger (OBC): A device that charges the high voltage battery by converting AC power from a domes- tic supply into DC power and supplying it to the battery. ¢« DC-DC Converter: A device that con- verts HV DC power from the HV bat-

it to the battery. ¢« DC-DC Converter: A device that con- verts HV DC power from the HV bat- tery to LV DC power which is required to maintain LV battery charge, which in turn powers the LV systems like lights, wipers, infotainment, etc. in the vehi- cle. ¢ Power Distribution Unit: Distributes power from the high voltage battery to the HV components like inverter, DC- DC converter, E-compressor etc. ¢ Bi-directional Convertor: The bi-di- rectional AC-DC/DC-AC converter reg- ulates the active power transferred from the DC battery to the AC powered devices. Additionally, it maintains unity power factor while controlling active power transferred from the AC grid to the DC battery..  INTRODUCTION TO EV Electric Motor: A device that converts electrical energy into rotational me- chanical energy which is then trans- ferred as rotational torque to the wheels through the gearbox. High Voltage Battery (lithium ion polymer) - An on board high voltage electrical energy storage device General

Battery (lithium ion polymer) - An on board high voltage electrical energy storage device General Warnings Your vehicle contains a sealed Li-ion high voltage battery. If the Li-ion bat- tery is disposed of improperly, there is a risk of severe burns and electrical shock that may result in serious injury or death and there is also a risk of en- vironmental damage. The EV system uses high voltage DC current. The system can be hot during and after starting and when the vehicle is shut off. Be careful of both the high voltage and the high temperature. Avoid being exposed to high-voltage components in the first place. Observe all high-voltage warning labels these indicate high-voltage components or areas. Observe all orange cables and other high voltage components, large and small these carry high voltage. Do not touch high-voltage components while the vehicle is in operation or cranked state. Do not disassemble, remove or re- place high-voltage parts and cables as well as their connectors

Do not disassemble, remove or re- place high-voltage parts and cables as well as their connectors because they can cause severe burns or electric shock that may result in serious injury or death. The vehicle high voltage system has no user serviceable parts. It is recom- mended that you take your vehicle to a TATA MOTORS EV service centre for any necessary maintenance. Pay special attention to pedestrians. Because there is no motor noise, pedestrians may not know the vehicle is approaching, moving or about to move, and may step into the path of vehicle travel. When leaving the vehicle, be sure to turn off the EV system. The EV system uses high voltage current. Failure to follow the proper handling instructions may cause serious injury or death.  Safety Of The High-voltage System * Do not perform any modifications or work on the vehicle, especially mainte- nance and repair work on the high-volt- age system and the body and avoid retrofitting accessories. * — If work is not carried out

age system and the body and avoid retrofitting accessories. * — If work is not carried out properly, there is the risk of fire and fatal injury from electrocution due to the high-voltage system. * TATA MOTORS recommends to have modifications and work on the vehicle only to be carried out by an authorized TATA MOTORS authorized EV service center or one that operates according to TATA MOTORS’ specifications with personnel trained accordingly. * Your vehicle’s high-voltage system is a self-contained system. Safety is en- sured as long as no unauthorized work is performed on high voltage electrical components or on the chassis. High-voltage System: Contact With Water The high-voltage system is typically safe even in the following example situations: ¢ Water in the foot well, for instance after a rainstorm when sunroof was kept open. * Vehicle is in water but only up to 300 mm. * Liquid escapes in the trunk. In these cases there is no risk of injury from electrocution. Other damage to the

in the trunk. In these cases there is no risk of injury from electrocution. Other damage to the vehicle is possible. INTRODUCTION TO EV Common Terminologies And Abbre- viations EV - Electric Vehicle HV battery — High Voltage battery LV battery — Low Voltage (12V) battery AC — Alternating Current DC — Direct Current OBC — On Board Charger PDU — Power Distribution Unit VCU — Vehicle Control Unit BMS - Battery Management System OBD - On Board Diagnostics SoC — State of Charge SRS — Supplementary Restraint System CRS - Child Restraint System DAB -— Driver Airbag PAB — Passenger Airbag ABS - Anti-lock Braking System EBD - Electronic Brake Force Distribution ESC - Electronic Stability Control PEPS - Passive Entry/Passive Start  INTRODUCTION TO EV ESCL - Electronic Column Steering Lock EPAS - Electric Power Assisted Steering LED — Light Emitting Diode DRL — Daytime Running Lamp ORVM - Outer Rear View Mirror IRVM — Inside Rear View Mirror EC-IRVM — Electric Chromic Inside Rear View Mirror

Rear View Mirror IRVM — Inside Rear View Mirror EC-IRVM — Electric Chromic Inside Rear View Mirror HVAC — Heating Ventilation and Air Con- ditioning FATC — Fully Automatic Temperature Con- trol DIS — Driver Information System DTE - Distance to Empty IGN — Ignition ACC — Accessory APB — Automatic Parking Brake (APB) CPL — Centre Positioning Light V2L — Vehicle to Load V2V — Vehicle to Vehicle  OVERVIEW Know Your Vehicle i} ANON FW INTRODUCTION TO EV . Bonnet . Turn Indicator/ DRL/ Position Lamp . Head Lamp . Fog Lamp . Front Parking Sensors . Front Camera . Front Windshield Wipers . Sunroof 9. Roof Rails 10. Windows 11. Rear View Mirror with Camera 12. Door Handle Switch (DHS) 13. Alloy Wheels  INTRODUCTION TO EV 1. Charging flap 2. Position Lamp 3. Stop Lamp 4.Turn Indicator 5. Reverse Lamp 6. Reflex Reflector 7. Rear Parking Sensors 8. Tail Gate Open Switch 9. Rear Camera 10. High Mounted Stop Lamp 11.Rear Windshield Wiper 12.Shark Fin Antenna  INTRODUCTION TO EV ANDAR WDN = . Door

Stop Lamp 11.Rear Windshield Wiper 12.Shark Fin Antenna  INTRODUCTION TO EV ANDAR WDN = . Door Opening Lever . Door Opening Knob . Express Down . Power Window Switches . Inhibit Switch . Bonnet Opening Lever . Driver side Coin Box . Charging flap opening . Seat Ventilation . Seat . Regeneration Lever . Steering wheel switches . Combi Switch RHS / LHS . Outer Rear View Mirror Selector  INTRODUCTION TO EV START STOP . Instrument Cluster . Horn . Driver Air Bag . Start/Stop Switch . Drive Modes . Gear Mode . Hazard Warning Switch 8. Infotainment Display 9. Passenger Airbag 10. Glove Box 11. Fascia Switches 12. Parking Brake 13. Power Socket & USB 14. Arm Rest 15. USB Charger for Rear Passenger NOoOf WN =  INTRODUCTION TO EV Important Messages CAUTION In this Owner’s Manual, you will find the text under the heading “WARNING”, It indicates to be careful. You are capa- “CAUTION” and “NOTE” which highlights —_ ble of doing something that might result important information. Pay particular

which highlights —_ ble of doing something that might result important information. Pay particular atten- in damage to equipment. tion to these highlighted messages. The Images / Illustrations in this owner’s man- ual are only for reference. It may defer with actual vehicle. @ NOTE Indicates additional information that will assist you in gaining the optimum ben- efit and care for your vehicle. ZX WARNING Indicates procedures or information that must be followed precisely in order to avoid the possibility of severe personal injury and serious damage to the vehi- cle.  SAFETY IMPORTANT INFORMATION Safe Driving Safety consciousness not only ensures your safety and the safety of other road users, but it also helps to reduce the wear and tear on your vehicle. Safe Driving Depends On: * How quickly you make decisions to avoid an accident. * Your ability to concentrate. + How well you can see and judge ob- jects. * How well familiar you are with your ve- hicle controls and its capabilities.

and judge ob- jects. * How well familiar you are with your ve- hicle controls and its capabilities. 10 Safety Tips Always take into account the road con- ditions, weather conditions, vehicle speed in order to prevent accidents. Turn ‘ON’ the side indicators at least 30 meters before taking a turn or changing the lane. Decelerate to a safe speed before tak- ing turn. Do not apply brakes during cornering. When overtaking other vehicles, watch out for the oncoming vehicle. Never drive under the influence of al- cohol or drugs. If your vehicle is equipped with info- tainment/ navigation system, set and make changes to your travel route only when the vehicle is parked. Program radio presets with the vehicle parked, and use your programmed presets to make radio use quicker and simpler. If your car gets flooded and has soaked carpeting or water on the floor- ing, you should not try to start the ve- hicle, we recommend to kindly contact TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre.  SEATS Your

the ve- hicle, we recommend to kindly contact TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre.  SEATS Your vehicle is provided with good seating comfort. To make your journey more safe and enjoyable we recommend you to fol- low below warnings and cautions. Driver’s seat ZX WARNING * Donot adjust seat while driving / ve- hicle is moving. Doing so could re- sult in loss of control, and an accident causing death, serious in- jury, or property damage. + Always sit as far back as possible from the steering wheel while main- taining comfortable control of the vehicle. Fitment of seat covers on driver seat with airbags is strictly prohibited. * Do not keep any sitting cushion on seats. This may result in serious or fatal injury in the event of accident. + After adjusting the seat make sure it is securely locked by pushing it for- ward and backwards without using lock release lever. Sudden or unex- pected movement of the driver’s seat could cause to lose control of the vehicle resulting in an accident.

movement of the driver’s seat could cause to lose control of the vehicle resulting in an accident. + All passengers must be seated in seats and restrained with seat belt properly while riding in vehicle + If there are occupants in the rear seats, be careful while adjusting the front seat position. Front Passenger Seat A\ WARNING Never ride in a vehicle with a front seat-back fully reclined. This may lead to serious injuries. Fitment of seat cov- ers on front passenger seat with airbags is strictly prohibited. Rear Seat Back AX WARNING The rear seatback must be securely latched. If not, passengers and objects SAFETY could thrown forward resulting in seri- ous injury in the event of a sudden stop or collision. Luggage and other objects in boot should be kept flat. If large, heavy, or piled they must be secured properly. No passenger should ride in the boot area or sit or lie on folded seat- backs while the vehicle is in motion. Applicable for Hatchback/SUV AX WARNING + Under no

seat- backs while the vehicle is in motion. Applicable for Hatchback/SUV AX WARNING + Under no circumstances should ob- jects be piled higher than the seat- backs. Failure to follow these warnings could result in serious in- jury in the event of a sudden stop or collision. Ensure that objects are se- curely fastened. + Storing items against seatback or in any other way interfering with proper locking of a seatback could result in serious or fatal injury in a sudden stop or collision After reset- ting the seatback to its seating posi- tion make sure it is securely latched 11  SAFETY by pushing it forward and back- wards A\ CAUTION Your hands might cut or injured by the sharp edges of the seats mechanism during looking for small objects trapped under the seats or between the seat and the center console. Head Restraint Safety consciousness not only ensures your safety and the safety of other road users, but it also helps to reduce the wear and tear on your vehicle. 12 Front Seat Adjust

road users, but it also helps to reduce the wear and tear on your vehicle. 12 Front Seat Adjust the head restraint so that it is as close to the head as possible and center of the head restraint supports the back of he head at eye level. XO @ |Z @ Correctly adjusted | Incorrectly adjusted | Incorrectly adjusted ZX WARNING Do not drive the vehicle without the seat head restraints. Head restraints are in- tended to help reduce injuries during an accident. Rear Seat (If equipped) Adjust the head restraint so that it is as close to the head as possible and the cen- ter of the head restraint supports the back of the head at eye level.  SEAT BELTS This section describes your Vehicle’s Seat belts, Airbags and Child restraints system. Please read and follow all these instruc- tions carefully to minimize risk of severe injury or death. * Seat belts are the primary restraints system in the vehicle. All occupants, including the driver, should always wear seat belts. Your vehicle is equipped with

All occupants, including the driver, should always wear seat belts. Your vehicle is equipped with three point seat belts for all occupants. * Sit back and adjust the driver seat. Make sure that your seat is adjusted to a good driving position and the back of the seat is upright. Buckling The Seat Belt % INSERT TO LOCK PRESS TO UNLOCK * Grasp the tongue then slowly pull ou’ the seat belt over the shoulder and across the chest. When the seat belt is long enough to fit, insert the tongue into the lock buckle until you hear a “CLICK” which indicates that the seat- belt is securely locked. (Refer “IN- SERT TO LOCK’ image) * Position the lap portion of seat belt across your pelvic bone, below your abdomen. To remove slack, pull up a bit on the shoulder seat belt. To loosen the lap portion seat belt if it is too tight, SAFETY tilt the tongue and pull on the lap seat belt. A snug seat belt reduces the risk of sliding under the seat belt in a colli- sion. Ensure that the seat belt running over

the risk of sliding under the seat belt in a colli- sion. Ensure that the seat belt running over the body (shoulder segment and lap segment) does not have any twist. Twisted seat belt may not offer effec- tive protection when required. Ensure that the seat belt webbing is straight and not twisted. Twisted seat belts may not work properly in case of collision. 13  SAFETY Releasing The Seat Belt To release the seat belt, push the red but- ton on the lock buckle (refer “PRESS TO UNLOCK’ image). Ensure to hold seat belt during unlocking and release it slowly to- wards the seat belt mounting. The seat belt will automatically retract to its stowed position. If necessary, slide the tongue down the webbing to allow the seat belt to retract fully. AX WARNING Due to retractor reversal action if you leave the seat belt from the unlock po- sition it may hit you or parts like glass in the way which may cause injury to you or damage to the vehicle. AX WARNING * Each seating position and seat belt

may cause injury to you or damage to the vehicle. AX WARNING * Each seating position and seat belt assembly must be used by one oc- cupant. + Be careful not to damage or tamper the seat belt webbing or hardware. Inspect the seat belt system period ically, checking for cuts, frays, or loose parts. A frayed or torn seatbelt could rip apart in a collision and leave you with no protection. If the seat belt webbing or hardware is damaged, get it replaced immedi- ately at TATA MOTORS Authorized service centre. Do not insert any items such as coins, clips, etc. into the seat belt buckles, and be careful not to spill liquids into these parts. If foreign materials get into a seat belt buckle, the seat belt will not work properly. Do not wear seat belts over hard, sharp or fragile items in clothing, such as pens, keys, spectacles etc. Do not use any accessories on seat belts or modify in any way the seat- belt system. Devices claiming to im- prove occupant comfort or repositioning the seat

way the seat- belt system. Devices claiming to im- prove occupant comfort or repositioning the seat belt, can re- duce the protection provided by the seat belt and increase the chance of serious injury in a collision. Seat Belt Height Adjustments if height adjustment is provided in the sea belt, occupant can adjust it as per their comfort.  Use of Seat Belts For Pregnant Woman ZX WARNING + Pregnant women must wear a cor- rectly positioned seat belt. It is safer for mother as well as unborn child. * Pregnant women should wear the lap part of the seat belt across the Pelvic Bone and as snug across the pelvic bone (hips) as possible. Keep the seat belt low so that it does not come across the abdomen. That way the strong bones of the hips will take the force if there is a collision. Seat Belt Warning Lamp Your vehicle is equipped with Seat Belt Reminder (SBR) for all occupants. @ NOTE Whenever an occupant is not sitting in any seating position then seat belt re- minder beeping sound will

an occupant is not sitting in any seating position then seat belt re- minder beeping sound will not be played in instrument cluster. If any material is kept on any seat then SBR beeping sound may be played in instrument cluster. Please do not keep any material on seat. + If the driver or any passenger do not fasten the seat belt, seat belt reminder lamp will blink and a buzzer will sound for pre-defined duration until the seat belt is buckled. + If any passenger seat is occupied by SAFETY child (without child seat), system may detect occupancy and warn with seat belt warning. It is not taken to mean child can occupy any passenger seat and use seat belt. Please refer CRS section for recommended seating po- sition if child is sitting with child seat. @ NOTE Fitment of seat covers on any seating position is strictly prohibited. It may af- fect the function of occupant sensor. 15  SAFETY Seat Belts With Pre — Tensioner (if equipped) You can use the pre-tensioner seat belts in the same

Seat Belts With Pre — Tensioner (if equipped) You can use the pre-tensioner seat belts in the same manner as ordinary seat belts. The seat belt pre-tensioner system works in conjunction with the Supplementary __Re-straints System (SRS-Airbags). In the event of a collision, as may be necessary, pre- ensioner tightens the seat belt so that it its the occupant’s body more snugly. When _ pre-tensioner activates, there could be some noise and release of smoke. This is normal and there are no health hazards or fire risk. 16 Seat Belt With Load Limiter (If equipped) You can use the load limiter in the same manner as ordinary seat belts. The seat belt load limiter system works in conjunc- tion with the Supplementary Restraints System (SRS-Airbags). In the event of a collision, as may be necessary, load limiter reduces the load on the rib cage region of the occupant. If the vehicle has been involved in a colli- sion, get it inspected immediately at TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre.

involved in a colli- sion, get it inspected immediately at TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre.  Supplementary Restraint System (SRS - Airbags) The SRS [Supplemental Restraint system] is designed to provide protection to occupants in case of collision or sudden impact, when crash is detected, the SRS airbag system deploys airbags to help reduce the risk of injury to the occupant. It works in conjunction with seat belts. SAFETY There are 6 airbags provided in your car: Diver Airbag Front Passenger Airbag Side Airbag RH Side Airbag LH Curtain Airbag RH Curtain Airbag LH The driver airbag is mounted in the centre of the steering wheel. The front passenger airbag is located inside the dashboard in front of the passenger seat. The airbags have suitable indications on steering wheel and on dash board. OQaRwon sa Side airbags are mounted in front row seats. Curtain airbags are mounted above the doors along the roof on both sides. The word ‘AIRBAG’ is marked at adjacent locations of

above the doors along the roof on both sides. The word ‘AIRBAG’ is marked at adjacent locations of respective airbags. 17  SAFETY The ‘SRS’ system also comprises of the following components depending upon the provided safety features in vehicle. + Seat belt Pre-tensioners + Seat belt with load limiters + Airbag ‘SRS’ ECU (Electronic Control Unit) * Collision Sensors + SRS wiring harness * SRS Warning lamp The System is active when ignition switch is in the “ON” position or the ignition mode is “ON”. Airbags are designed to inflate in collisions when required. In the event of a collision, the collision sen- sors will detect signals, and if the Airbag ECU judges that the signals represent a severe collision, will trigger the airbags. The inflated Airbags provide a cushion to the occupants. The Airbag inflates and de- flates so quickly that you may not even re- alize that it has activated. The Airbag will neither hinder your view nor make it hurdle to exit the vehicle. Airbag inflation

The Airbag will neither hinder your view nor make it hurdle to exit the vehicle. Airbag inflation is virtually instantaneous 18 and occurs with considerable force, ac- companied by loud noise and smoke, which is normal. The inflated airbag, to- gether with seat belts, limit the movement of an occupant, thereby reducing the risk of injury. When an airbag inflates, you may see some smoke-like particles. The particles are a normal by-product of the process that generates the non-toxic gas used for airbag inflation. These airborne particles may irritate the skin, eyes, nose, or throat. If you have skin or eye irritation, rinse the area with water. For nose or throat irrita- tion, move to fresh air. Also sometimes the smoke can cause breathing problems, in such cases get fresh air promptly. After inflation, airbag provides a gradual cushioning effect for the occupant there- after deflates. It is not advisable to drive your vehicle after the airbags have been deployed. If you are involved

It is not advisable to drive your vehicle after the airbags have been deployed. If you are involved in another collision, the airbags will not be in place to protect you. @ NOTE * Open your windows and doors as soon as possible after collision to re- duce prolonged exposure to the smoke and powder released by the inflating Airbag. * Do not touch the Airbag container’s internal components immediately after an Airbag has inflated. The parts that come into contact with an inflating Airbag may be very hot. + Always wash exposed skin areas thoroughly with lukewarm water and mild soap. A\ WARNING « Even in vehicle with airbags, you and your passengers must always wear the seat belts provided. In order to minimize the risk and sever- ity of injury in the event of a collision. «lf an occupant is out of position dur- ing collision, the rapidly deploying Airbag may forcefully contact the  occupant causing serious or fatal in- juries. A\ WARNING + Always use seat belts and CRS — during every

causing serious or fatal in- juries. A\ WARNING + Always use seat belts and CRS — during every trip and at all times. Even with airbags, you can be seri- ously injured or killed in a collision if you are not wearing seat belt prop- erly or not wearing seat belt when airbag inflates. + You and your passengers should never sit or lean unnecessarily close to the Airbags. + Move your seat as far back as pos- sible from front Airbags, while still maintaining control of the vehicle. + Alloccupants should sit upright with the seatback in an upright position, centred on the seat cushion with their seat belt on, legs comfortably extended and their feet on the floor until the vehicle is parked. * Do not allow the front passenger to place their feet or legs on the dash- board. Passenger Airbag (PAB) Switch Passenger airbag switch is used to acti- vate and de-activate the passenger airbag in the vehicle. The switch is located on the left side of the dashboard and can be accessed once the

the vehicle. The switch is located on the left side of the dashboard and can be accessed once the co-driver side door is opened. =i PASSENGER AlRBAG PAB Switch ON: When an adult is seated in the front passenger seat, ensure that SAFETY PAB switch is turned to ‘ON’ position. This will ensure that the passenger airbag is operational in the event of a collision. PAB Switch OFF: If rearward facing child seat needs to be installed on front passen- ger seat to carry the child then ensure PAB switch is turned OFF. This will ensure that the passenger airbag will remain de-acti- vated in the event of a collision. This switch can be operated by using me- chanical key / Key with remote / Smart key as per vehicle variants. Refer “Keys” sec- tion in this Manual. Passenger Airbag (PAB) Indicator Passenger airbag indicator is provided to notify an occupant, whether passenger airbag is activated (ON) or deactivated (OFF) in vehicle. PAB indicator is located on roof near roof lamp. 19  SAFETY PAB

or deactivated (OFF) in vehicle. PAB indicator is located on roof near roof lamp. 19  SAFETY PAB Indicator ON: | switch is turned to ‘ON’ position to activate the airbag, ‘ON symbol & text’ will illuminate in amber color. PAB Indicator OFF: switch is turned to ‘OFF’ position to deactivate the airbag, ‘OFF symbol & text’ will illuminate in amber color. 20  SAFETY  22 @ NOTE Never place your arm over the airbag as a deploying airbag can re- sult in serious arm fractures or other injuries. Do not allow the passengers to lean their heads or bodies onto doors or place objects between the doors and passengers when they are seated on seats equipped with side and/or curtain Airbags. Do not place or stick any item/s in the vehicle, except at designated lo cations (such as utility bins, cup/bot- tle holders, boot space etc). Loose items may act as a projectile during a collision and cause severe to fatal injuries. Please be aware that any unse- cured item in your vehicle, such as your pet,

to fatal injuries. Please be aware that any unse- cured item in your vehicle, such as your pet, unsecured CRS or a lap- top, can become a potential hazard in the event of a collision or sudden stop, causing injuries to occupants in the vehicle. Coat hooks (if provided), must be used only for that purpose. Never hang other items on to those hooks. This could affect deployment of the Airbags, and may lead to severe to fatal injuries. Always contact your TATA MO- TORS Authorized Service Centre if the vehicle is damaged, even if airbag has not inflated or if any part of an airbag module cover shows sign of cracking or damage. ZX WARNING If your SRS malfunctions, the Airbag may not inflate properly during a colli- sion thereby increasing risk of serious injury or death. If any of the following conditions occur, your SRS is malfunc- tioning: * The SRS warning lamp does not turn ‘ON’ when the ignition switch is placed in the ‘ON’ position for few seconds. * The SRS warning lamp stays ‘ON’

ignition switch is placed in the ‘ON’ position for few seconds. * The SRS warning lamp stays ‘ON’ after illuminating. * The SRS warning lamp comes ‘ON’/stays ‘ON’ while the vehicle is in motion. * The SRS warning lamp blinks when the vehicle is running. We recommend the customer to imme- diately visit TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre and get the SRS system inspected if any of the above conditions occur.  ZX WARNING AX WARNING If your SRS malfunctions, the Airbag may not inflate properly during a colli- sion thereby increasing risk of serious injury or death. If any of the following conditions occur, your SRS is malfunc- tioning: * The SRS warning lamp does not turn ‘ON’ when the ignition switch is placed in the ‘ON’ position for few seconds. * The SRS warning lamp stays ‘ON’ after illuminating. * The SRS warning lamp comes ‘ON’/stays ‘ON’ while the vehicle is in motion. * The SRS warning lamp blinks when the vehicle is running. We recommend the customer to imme- diately visit

warning lamp blinks when the vehicle is running. We recommend the customer to imme- diately visit TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre and get the SRS system inspected if any of the above conditions occur. Never make any modifications to your vehicle. The modifications car- ried out, but not limited to the vehi- cle frame, bumpers, front fenders, ride height, suspension, seat belts, interior trims, steering wheel (espe- cially holders), are not acceptable. This will affect the intended perform- ance of SRS. Fitment of bull bars, seat covers on seats with airbags etc, is strictly pro- hibited. If you need to make any modifica- tions to accommodate any disability you may have, please contact your Authorized TATA MOTORS Dealer for necessary guidance. Do not tamper with SRS in any way. This will lead to unexpected per- formance of system and may cause serious injury or death. SAFETY Airbag Warning Sticker On Front Pas- senger Sun Visor The Airbag Warning Symbol on sun visor reminds of

Warning Sticker On Front Pas- senger Sun Visor The Airbag Warning Symbol on sun visor reminds of the extreme hazards associ- ated with the use of a rearward-facing child restraint on front passenger seat dur- ing airbag deployment. It does not mean that a child cannot occupy front passenger seat and use seat belt. Please refer CRS section for recommended seating position for children. 23  SAFETY from frontal airbags. Therefore, deploying airbags may deploy depending upon the AX WARNING Never use a rearward facing child re- straint on a seat protected by an active Airbag in front of it, Death or serious in- jury to the child can occur. Airbags Deployment Conditions When front airbags should not deploy? Minor frontal collision: Seat belt (if worn) offers adequate occupant protection in low severity collisions. The airbags are trig- gered only when there is a collision severe enough to trigger the airbags. Deployment of frontal airbags is not beneficial in low severity collisions. Side

the airbags. Deployment of frontal airbags is not beneficial in low severity collisions. Side collision: During a side collision, oc- cupants tend to move sideways. There- fore, deploying frontal airbags in such situations will not benefit the occupants. Side airbags and side curtain airbags (if equipped) are specifically designed to re- duce the injuries that can occur in side col- lision. Rear collision: During a rear collision, oc- cupants tend to move (rearwards) away frontal airbags in such situations will not protect the occupant. Head restraints and seat belts provide occupant protection dur- ing a rear collision. Rollovers collision: During a rollover col- lision, unbelted occupants may float inside the passenger compartment. This will in- crease the risk of injuries and may prove to be fatal. Wearing seat belts provide highly effective occupant protection during rollover collision. Front airbags, are not de- signed to deploy in a rollover as frontal airbags cannot offer any

Front airbags, are not de- signed to deploy in a rollover as frontal airbags cannot offer any protection in rollover collision. When front airbags/side airbags/side curtain airbags (if equipped) deploy with minor or no visible vehicle dam- age? The airbags are triggered only when there is a collision severe enough to trigger the airbags. The extent of vehicle damage is not always the correct indicator for airbag deployment. In some extreme/rare condi- tions; of rough road driving, running into a curb or hitting other fixed objects; the severity of collision. In some of these con- ditions, damage to the vehicle may be minor or not be readily visible. When front airbags/side airbags/side curtain airbags (if equipped) may not deploy, even with exterior visible vehi- cle damage? The airbags are triggered only when there is a collision severe enough to trigger the airbags. The amount of visible vehicle damage is not always the correct indicator for airbag deployment. Some collisions can

vehicle damage is not always the correct indicator for airbag deployment. Some collisions can result in visible damage but with no airbag deployment, because the airbags would not have been needed or would not have provided protection even if they had deployed. Seat belts, if worn, offer ade- quate occupant protection in such cases. 24  Children On Board A\ WARNING * Do not leave unattended children in your vehicle. * During reversing and parking, en- sure that your children are far away from the vehicle. ZX WARNING + Donot put the safety seat belt under your child’s arm or behind its back. + Do not use pillows, books or towels to boost your child’s height. * Do not allow children to stand up or kneel on either the rear or the front seats. An unrestrained child could suffer serious or fatal injuries during a collision. * Do not install a booster seat or a booster cushion with a seat belt that is slack or twisted. Child Restraint System (CRS) TATA MOTORS strongly recommends the use of

that is slack or twisted. Child Restraint System (CRS) TATA MOTORS strongly recommends the use of Child Restraint Systems (CRS) for all children up to 36 Kg and to be placed at recommended positions only (Refer CRS Position table in this section). ISOFIX CRS can be installed in the vehicle using seat belts and/or ISOFIX with support leg (if equipped) or ISOFIX with Top Tether (if equipped). These ISOFIX attachment points are located on rear outboard seat- ing locations which enables quick and safe child seat engagement. ISOFIX with mounting eyelets Top Tether Top Tether mounting anchorages are lo- cated at backside of rear outboard seats. The harness system of CRS holds the child in place, and in a collision, acts to keep the child positioned in the seat and reduce the risk of injuries. 25  Keep children in a forward-facing or rear- ward facing CRS with a harness until they reach the size or age or weight limit rec- ommended by your CRS manufacturer. Selection and Installation of CRS

or age or weight limit rec- ommended by your CRS manufacturer. Selection and Installation of CRS Always select the CRS that complies with latest safety standards (AIS 072 / ECE R44 / ECE R129). The CRS are classified according to the child’s size, height and weight. Select the appropriate CRS for your child. Ensure that the child fits prop- erly in the CRS and it is securely installed in the vehicle. While installing the child seats always ad- 26 here to the directions in this Owner’s Man- ual as well as those provided by the child seat’s manufacturer. TATA MOTORS recommends Joie i- Spin Safe i-Size child seats for up to 18 Kg children. These seats are available at TML dealerships. @ NOTE recommends to TATA MOTORS keep the highlighted device in close condition while using Joie i-Spin Safe child seat in car Installing The Child Seat on Front Pas- senger Seats + Adjust the front passenger seat back up to its vertical position as per re- quirement, so that it can create ade- quate

seat back up to its vertical position as per re- quirement, so that it can create ade- quate contact between passenger seat backrest & child seat. + Adjust the front passenger seat for-  ward or backward as per requirement, SAFETY passenger is sitting at that position. Recommended CRS Position so that there could not be any contact between front passenger seat & child seat or child present behind it. ¢ If required, adjust the front passenger seat height to its suitable position. + While installing child seat on front pas- senger seating position, adjust the buckle to its suitable position of rota- tion. « While installing forward facing child seat for 15 to 18kg children on front passenger seating position, adjust the front passenger seat to its rearmost position. Installing The Child Seat on Rear Pas- senger Seats * If required, adjust the front seat so that there could not be any contact be- tween front seat & child seat or child present behind front seat. « While installing forward

be- tween front seat & child seat or child present behind front seat. « While installing forward facing child seats adjust the rear seat head re- straints to its lowermost position or re- move it if required & keep it at safe While installing child seats on rear out- board seating position, adjust their re- spective buckles to its required position of rotation. location to reinstall it whenever adult 27  SAFETY 28  Recommended CRS Position As Per The Vehicle Matrix The suitability of seat position for carriage of children and recommended category of CRS is shown in the table as per the child group. The child’s life is at risk in a collision if the CRS is not properly secured in the vehicle. Be sure to secure the child in the restraint system according to the manufacturer's instructions A\ WARNING Do not use an infant carrier or a child safety seat that “hooks” over a seat- back, it will not provide adequate pro- tection in a collision. SAFETY Recommended CRS Positions (CRS Fastened

not provide adequate pro- tection in a collision. SAFETY Recommended CRS Positions (CRS Fastened With A Safety Belt) Front Passen- Front Pas- Mass . . Rear Out- Rear Out- Rear Group Group SerwithiP SE ei engerwith board LH board RH Centre OFF PAB ON o | Upto 10 U x U U Xx kg o+ | Upto 18 U x U U x kg 9 to 18 U | kg UF UF U U Xx yw | 18 t026 UF UF U U x kg iy | 22 10.36 UF UF U U x kg X: Seat Position not suitable for children in this mass group. U: Suitable for “universal” category restraints approved for use in this mass group. UF: Suitable for forward facing “universal” category restraints approved for use in this mass group. 29  SAFETY A\ CAUTION ACRS in a closed vehicle can become very hot. To prevent burns, check the seating surface and buckles before placing your child in CRS. Front Rear BET Grou Mass Category Of Passen- Outboard Out- Rear AX WARNING p Group Child Seat eer LH* board Centre + Do not modify CRS in any way. Recommended CRS Positions (CRS That Can Be Used With

board Centre + Do not modify CRS in any way. Recommended CRS Positions (CRS That Can Be Used With ISOFIX Sys- tem) Up to 10 kg E x x 0+ | Upto 13 kg C,D,E x IL IL x Z\ CAUTION L IL I 9 to 18 ki D, C, B, B1,A xX x * Do not install a booster seat or a ° q IUF IUF booster cushion with only the lap ll 15 to 25 kg x IL IL x strap of the seat belt or a seat belt that is slack or twisted. Il_| 22 to 36 kg x IL IL x + Do not leave any toys or other ob- L: The seat is suitable for the ISOFIX child seats with “Semi-Universal” approval. jects loose in the CRS or on the seat while the vehicle is in motion. UF: The seat is suitable for forward facing child seats and is permitted for use in this weight category. X: The seat is not equipped for the ISOFIX system. *Rear outboard seating positions are suitable for ISO/R3, Class C CRS.  After a collision, we recommend to get seat belts, seats, ISOFIX and top-tether anchorages (as may be applicable) inves- tigated at TATA MOTORS Authorized Service

and top-tether anchorages (as may be applicable) inves- tigated at TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre. Each CRS should be used for one child only. Passenger airbag can be turned OFF manually through switch provided on side face of the dashboard at front passenger side. Visual signal of passenger airbag ON or OFF is indicated on the roof console. When passenger airbag is ON, a rearward facing child seat shall not be installed on the front passenger seat. When passenger airbag is OFF, a forward or rearward facing child seat can be in- stalled on the front passenger seat. While installing a rearward facing child seat on the front passenger seat, passen- ger airbag must be OFF. Refer images in PAB Switch section. WARNING If the airbag SRS warning indicator in the instrument cluster illuminates con- tinuously, it means that there is mal- function in the system. Remove the CRS from front passenger seat and contact your TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre. SAFETY 31  SAFETY Child Lock @

seat and contact your TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre. SAFETY 31  SAFETY Child Lock @ NOTE Lift the lock lever upward to deactivate the childproof lock when not required. Child lock are provided on both rear doors. It is used for safety of a child. Child safety lever to be used for safety of child for preventing them to open rear door while seating in passenger seat to avoid accident while vehicle is moving. Both the rear doors of the vehicle are pro- vided with a child proof lock. Push the lock lever (located on vertical face of the door) downward before closing the door. The door which has been locked by activating the child lock cannot be opened from in- side. It can be opened only from the out- side. 32  ANTI-LOCK BRAKING SYSTEM (ABS) ABS regulates brake pressure in such a way that the wheels do not lock when you brake. This allows you to con- tinue steering the vehicle when braking. The ABS warning lamp in the instrument cluster lights up when the ignition is switched on.

braking. The ABS warning lamp in the instrument cluster lights up when the ignition is switched on. It goes off after a few sec- onds if the system is healthy. ZX WARNING + If ABS is faulty, the wheels could lock when braking. The steer ability and braking characteristics may be severely impaired. There is an in- creased danger of skid-ding and ac- cidents. * Drive carefully. Have ABS checked immediately at a TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre as soon as possible. 1. While Braking * IfABS intervenes: continue to de-press the brake pedal vigorously until the braking situation is over. * To make a full brake application: de- press the brake pedal with full force. If ABS intervenes when braking, you will feel a pulsing in the brake pedal. The pul- sating brake pedal can be an indication of hazardous road conditions, and functions as a reminder to take extra care while driv- ing. A\ WARNING * The stopping distance required for vehicles with ABS may be slightly more than conventional

* The stopping distance required for vehicles with ABS may be slightly more than conventional brake sys- tem but ABS will still offer the ad- vantage of helping you maintain directional control. * However, remember that ABS will not compensate for bad road or weather conditions or poor driver judgment. Drive within safety mar- gins taking into consideration into SAFETY consideration prevailing weather and traffic conditions. 2. Electronic Brake Force Distribution (EBD) EBD monitors and con- trols the brake pressure on the rear wheels to improve driving stability while braking. EBD provides optimal braking pressure distribution between front and rear wheels to optimize braking distance and to ensure vehicle stability by means of lowering braking pressure at rear wheels. AX WARNING +« If EBD is malfunctions, the rear wheels can lock under full braking. This increases the risk of skidding and accidents. * You should therefore adapt your driving style to the different handling

skidding and accidents. * You should therefore adapt your driving style to the different handling characteristics. Have the brake sys- tem checked immediately at a TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Cen 33  SAFETY tre as soon as possible. 3. Electronic Stability Program (ESP) ESP monitors driving stability and traction. If ESP detects that the vehicle is deviating from the direction desired by the driver, one or more wheels are braked to stabilize the vehicle. The vehicle output is also modi- fied to keep the vehicle on the desired course within physical limits. ESP assists the driver when pulling away on wet or slippery roads. ESP can also stabilize the vehicle during braking and acceleration A. Cornering Stability Control (CSC) Corner stability Control supports / stabi- lizes vehicle during partial braking on curves by reducing pressure at required inner wheel of the vehicle. This helps to reduce probability of vehicle over steering during cornering. B. Off Road ABS Based on wheel speed

reduce probability of vehicle over steering during cornering. B. Off Road ABS Based on wheel speed information off road ABS helps to avoid wheel lock on un- 34 even surfaces like loose gravel, pot holes by reducing the stopping distance com- pared to standard ABS. C. Electronic Traction Control (ETC) The Electronic Traction Control system function (ETC) is designed as a slip control system to prevent the driven wheels of a vehicle from excessive wheel slip. D. Roll Over Mitigation (ROM) The main feature of the Roll over Mitiga- tion function is the detection of a rollover critical situation and to prevent the vehicle rollover. This is done by active brake inter- ventions on selected wheels, thereby re- ducing the forces that cause a roll-over situation.. E. Brake Disc Wiping (BDW) Water on the brake disc leads to a delay in brake response time. The purpose of the function Brake Disc wiping is to remove moisture when driving in wet conditions automatically. To get quick response form

is to remove moisture when driving in wet conditions automatically. To get quick response form Brake and _ better deceleration. F. Electronic Brake Pre-fill (EBP) The Electronic Brake Prefill (EBP) function reduces the air gap of the brake pad and the brake disc. The function is triggered after a sudden release of the accelerator pedal due to an unexpected emergency brake situation. By actively pre-filling the brake-system the brake response time is reduced and results in a shorter stopping distance. G. Hydraulic Brake Assist (HBA) In a dangerous emergency situation, most drivers don’t use the full available performance of the brake system, because they brake too soft. The HBA function detects the critical situation and builds up additional brake pressure to reduce the braking distance. H. Hydraulic Fading Compensation (HFC) In dangerous fading situations most driv- ers operate the brake pedal with a small or regular braking force and they never reach to the maximum possible vehicle

pedal with a small or regular braking force and they never reach to the maximum possible vehicle de-  celeration. The HFC function improve the stopping distance by eliminating required pressure build-up lag by the driver. J. Dynamic Wheel Torque By Brake (DWT-B) The main goal of the function is to improve the agility of a vehicle and to enable a more direct steering. This is mainly achieved by braking interventions at the inner wheels during turning. DWT-B re- duces understeer tendency of the car and a higher curve speed can be achieved. K. Hill Hold Control (HHC) Hill Hold Control is a comfort function. The main intend is to prevent the vehicle from rolling backwards while driving off up-hill on an inclined surface. L. Panic Brake Alert (PBA) Panic brake alert warns surrounding vehicles when emergency or heavy braking takes place. The function will tigger Hazard lamps automatically, which will act as an immediate warning o vehicles directly behind and nearby. PBA is an immediate and

will act as an immediate warning o vehicles directly behind and nearby. PBA is an immediate and urgent warn- ing to all vehicles around thus improv- ing their response time to unforeseen braking situations PBA can help reduce accidents hrough effective warning to surrounding traffic during emergency Braking With PBA, surrounding drivers and ve- hicles have more time to respond against slowdown vehicles Reducing the amount and degree of injuries caused by rear end collisions hat occur during heavy braking. PBA provides additional warning to im- prove road safety. In the event of primary collision there are chances that vehicle can no longer be safely controlled. Accident analysis has shown that an active SAFETY brake intervention would mitigate the effect of the subsequent collision After impact braking system is acti- vated automatically and brakes the car in a safe manner to mitigate secondary collision. Hazard & brake lights are triggered to intimate surrounding users of an emer-

secondary collision. Hazard & brake lights are triggered to intimate surrounding users of an emer- gency situation. Warning lights will continue flashing after vehicle comes to a standstill. The driver can override the system by depressing the brake/acc pedal if there is a risk of being hit by following traffic. The basic assumption is that the brake system is intact after the primary im- pact. Mitigate impact/severity of subsequent collisions.  SAFETY GUIDELINE FOR PREVENTING FIRE AND ELECTRIC SHOCK + Make sure the charge station’s supply cable is positioned so it will not be stepped on, tripped over, or otherwise subjected to damage or stress. + There are no user serviceable parts in- side the charging gun. Contact autho- rised TATA MOTORS EV service centre should you experience any problems with the charging gun. Do not attempt to repair or service the charge station or charging gun yourself — may result in injury. + Donot operate your charge station and gun if it or the supply

yourself — may result in injury. + Donot operate your charge station and gun if it or the supply cable is visibly damaged. Contact your Service Rep- resentative for service immediately. Refer to the ‘Emergency and Break- down’ section in this manual for infor- mation on the Service Representative in your area. + Donot place fingers inside the coupler on either end of the charging gun. * Do not allow children to operate this device. Adult supervision is mandatory 36 when children are in proximity to a charge station that is in use. « Not for use in commercial garages. + During normal operation, the charg- ing gun or couplers may feel warm. If either coupler or the charging gun feels hot during charging, unplug the gun and have a qualified electri- cian inspect the connections before you continue charging. * Charging station and domestic plug point must be approved/certified by a qualified electrician before using the charging gun. Coupler Recepta- cle has to have proper Grounding,

electrician before using the charging gun. Coupler Recepta- cle has to have proper Grounding, electrical connection and has to contain a Residual-Current Circuit Device (RCD). * Charging should be done in Ignition OFF state. ZX WARNING « Unplug both couplers of your Portable Charging Gun before cleaning. * The charger generates electromag- netic waves that can seriously im- pact medical electric devices such as an implantable cardiac pace- maker in a person. When a person has an implant like the one men- tioned above, make sure to ask the medical team and the manufacturer whether charging your EV will im- pact the operation of the medical electric device implant. In such case, do not go near the vehicle when it is charging. * Ensure that the charging gun is al- ways stored in a safe place. Do no expose it to rain or wet conditions. Avoid pouring or dripping water or other liquids over it. If water pene- trates the electrical devices, the risk of electric shock increases. Ensure that

it. If water pene- trates the electrical devices, the risk of electric shock increases. Ensure that all plugs and cables are free of  ZA\ CAUTION moisture before using the charging gun. Never connect the charging gun to the mains with wet or moist hands or when the charging gun is wet. Do not use a damaged charging station, domestic plug point or charging port. Both charging gun couplers must fit tightly into recep- tacles that are in good condition. Using the charger with a worn or damaged port may cause burns or start a fire. Make sure that the device is always stored in a safe place. Do no ex- pose the device to rain or wet con- ditions. DO NOT use this product if the EV charge connector/cable is damaged. During charging the vehi- cle must not be exposed to rain, lightning and snow. SAFETY 37  SAFETY ANTI-THEFT LIZER/ PEPS Immobilizer system is designed to pre-vent vehicle theft by electronically disabling the vehicle ignition system. The vehicle can be started only with vehicle’s

disabling the vehicle ignition system. The vehicle can be started only with vehicle’s original Immobi- lizer ignition key which has an electronic identification programmed code. @ NOTE Use only Flip key, the other should be kept in a safe location. Note down “key Tag no.” information (and keep it safe) which is required while getting new/spare keys. Remember that it is not possible to prepare new/spare keys without the “key Tag number.” Take pre- caution about Flip key, as without Flip key vehicle cannot be started. DEVICE-IMMOBI- 38 Vehicle Condition Immobilizer Lamp Status Vehicle State Meaning / Function Of The State Vehicle Immobilized and awaiting electronic Ignition OFF Blinking Locked key Ignition ON OFF Unlocked Normal condition and ready to start the vehi- + Problem with key (Wrong key used to start vehicle) Ignition ON ON Locked [+ Problem with Immobilizer system. Con- tact a TATA MOTORS Authorized Serv- ice Centre. Ignition ON Blinking Unlocked Contact a TATA MOTORS

tact a TATA MOTORS Authorized Serv- ice Centre. Ignition ON Blinking Unlocked Contact a TATA MOTORS Authorized Serv- ice Centre immediately.  HV BATTERY SYSTEM Temperature Limits Battery pack and vehicle can operate safely in limits from 0°C to 50°C. To control the battery temperature of the high voltage battery the air condi- tioner is used to cool down the battery and may switch on automatically with- out request from control panel which may generate noise from operation of the air conditioner compressor and cooling fan. Hv Battery Life & Maintenance This Vehicle comes with a battery life of eight years or 160,000km warranty for the battery, whichever is earlier. Regular serv- ice of the vehicle and charging protocol to be followed to maximize the battery life. Energy Information The vehicle battery pack has a maximum energy of 40.5kWh. Energy retention ca- pacity deteriorates over several cycles of usage and hence range deterioration hap- pens overtime. This decrease in range

several cycles of usage and hence range deterioration hap- pens overtime. This decrease in range during the end of life of battery is expected and is not con- sidered as a malfunction of the battery pack. During these conditions, it is recom- mended to contact an authorized service center for inspection. Brake Energy Recovery System The vehicle features energy regeneration system, which regenerates expended en- ergy during coasting or braking during the drive. This system allows the battery to be recharged under the above mentioned conditions. Please note, the regeneration system does not fully recharge the battery, it only provides a chance to recover a portion of energy that would be lost during braking. When you release the accelerator or press the brake pedal, energy flows from wheels to high voltage battery, thereby charging it. BATTERY AND COMPONENT Regeneration is done by converting driv- ing force (kinetic energy) into electrical en- ergy that is stored in the Li-ion battery

driv- ing force (kinetic energy) into electrical en- ergy that is stored in the Li-ion battery while the vehicle is decelerating or being driven downhill. This is called regenerative braking Heavily Discharged High Voltage System In the case of a heavily discharged HV battery, there is a chance that the low volt- age battery is discharged as well. In this case, please contact your nearest TATA MOTORS EV service centre for further as- sistance. Do not try to jump start the vehi- cle or tow the vehicle without guidance from the service assistant. Heated High Voltage Battery In such a condition, the battery has safety logics to limit the performance or discon- nect by itself with prior warning. The vehi- cle should be stopped and allowed to cool down and TATA MOTORS EV service cen- tre must be contacted for rectification. 39  BATTERY AND COMPONENT Long Storage Of Vehicle With Re- spect To Hv Battery Pack The HV battery undergoes discharge at a rate of approximately 2% over a period of 30

Battery Pack The HV battery undergoes discharge at a rate of approximately 2% over a period of 30 days in storage. Do not allow the vehi- cle to be discharged to 0% in storage. It is recommended that the vehicle must be charged to a charge level in between 30% to 50% before leaving the vehicle for long time storage. After this time period the ve- hicle must be charged to 100% using Nor- mal Charging before use. High Voltage System Failure In the case of high voltage system failure, which may arise due to various reasons, contact TATA MOTORS EV service centre for further assistance. Predicting Energy Usage The vehicle battery energy usage is dis- played in the instrument cluster in the form of estimated range. This range is updated by the system algorithm, depending on the driving conditions. Displayed range in the instrument cluster is a tentative number based on drive route, 40 driving pattern and usage pattern history over the past drives. It is recommended keep a 20km buffer in

pattern and usage pattern history over the past drives. It is recommended keep a 20km buffer in estimated range be- fore planning the trip Disposal The disposal of an HV Battery must be done with utmost care and will be carried out by TATA MOTORS after sales service at the end of the battery life time or if the battery pack has passed its warranty pe- riod. * Itis advised to contact TPEM autho- rised service centres which shall guide & help in dismounting, han- dling and disposal through agencies who are certified by central/state pollution control board & obtain cer- tificate of disposal from these agen- cies as proof of sustainable disposal. + If you decide not to use the recom- mended TATA Motors Authorised EV service center or TATA Motors Authorised EV Workshop to dispose of your high voltage battery, the re- sponsibility of the consequences of environmental pollution or accidents must be borne solely by you, the owner of the vehicle. * Customers who wish to dispose of battery by

be borne solely by you, the owner of the vehicle. * Customers who wish to dispose of battery by themselves shall deal only with registered entities (list of these is available on the CPCB/SPCB website) after duly verifying validity of necessary regis- tration documents. After disposal the EPR certificate has to be ob- tained by the customer from the en- tity. It is request that customer shall provide this certificate to nearest TPEM service centre which is to be kept for records & submitted to cen- tral pollution control board as proof of disposal according to policy guidelines. ZX WARNING EV battery contains materials like Lithium Iron, graphite, plastic & steel etc  which can have impact on environment and are harmful if not handled/disposed of carefully. There is a risk of severe burns and electrical shock that may re- sult in serious injury while additionally posing a risk of environmental damage. TIPS TO CONSERVE BATTERY LIFE 1. Battery Charging It is advisable to charge the

damage. TIPS TO CONSERVE BATTERY LIFE 1. Battery Charging It is advisable to charge the vehicle upto 100%. This en- sures accurate SoC calculation and con- sistent energy con- tent intake during charging. Charging to 100% also maintains battery health for longer time and ensures better range throughout the life cycle of the vehicle. It is also advisable to slow or home charge the vehicle to 100% as much as possible. Slow Charging and full charging is the best way to charge your vehicle to maintain the health of the high voltage battery. {umm Battery Charging If fast charging is used, it is advisable to slow or home charge the vehicle from less than 20% charge to 100% for every 4 fast charging cycles. BATTERY AND COMPONENT 2. Cell Balancing Or Equalization Cell balanc- ing or equal- fF ization and § SoC calibra- ion happens during charging, especially at higher SoC, > 90%. This causes charging to take longer time above 90%. Allow the vehicle ‘0 reach 100% SoC before terminating the

charging to take longer time above 90%. Allow the vehicle ‘0 reach 100% SoC before terminating the charging session, as both cell balancing and SoC calibration are essential steps for any battery to perform optimally for a pro- longed time. 3. Extreme Temperatures Extreme — tempera- ures impact upon how well a battery can maintain its level of charge. Avoid charging the high voltage battery when Teneeanes it is hot and vehicle is driven for long distances especially in summers. Allow vehicle temperature to cool down before charging. It is always a  BATTERY AND COMPONENT better to charge EV when ambient temper- ature is low especially at night. 4. Vehicle Parking Avoid parking vehicle in direct sunlight for long duration. Try to park it under shade, tree etc. This helps in keeping battery tem- perature low resulting Vehicle Parking enhance battery life over the life cycle. 42  CHARGING INSTRUCTIONS TO FOLLOW Charging Box Socket Carefully read these instructions and the charging

INSTRUCTIONS TO FOLLOW Charging Box Socket Carefully read these instructions and the charging instructions before charging your electric vehicle. The Normal Charging gun is located inside the boot of the vehicle. As shown in the image, the parts for Nor- mal Charging system are: 1. Home Charging box socket 2. Plug 3. Control box 4. Charging gun 5. Charging port 23  CHARGING Instructions: + — It is recommended to charge the vehi- cle to 100% every time, whenever ve- hicle is being charged. + After a maximum of 4 continuous fast charging cycles/opportunity charging cycles (Opportunity Charging - where it was below 100% SoC) it is manda- tory to use slow/AC Charging and charge the vehicle to 100% SoC. * Slow/AC Charging till 100% SoC is must, at least once a 15 Days or after every 4 fast /opportunity charging cy- cles whichever is earlier, for SoC Cali- bration & Cell Balancing. + Avoid charging vehicle under heavy rain / thunderstorms + Avoid driving vehicle below 10% SOC. + Make sure

vehicle under heavy rain / thunderstorms + Avoid driving vehicle below 10% SOC. + Make sure the charge station’s supply cable is positioned so it will not be stepped on, tripped over, or otherwise subjected to damage or stress. + There are no user serviceable parts in- side the charging gun. Contact autho- rised TATA MOTORS EV service 44 centre should you experience any problems with the charging gun. Do not attempt to repair or service the charge station or charging gun yourself may result in injury. Do not operate your charge station and gun if it or the supply cable is visibly damaged. Contact your Service Rep- resentative for service immediately. Refer to the ‘Emergency and Break- down’ section in this manual for infor- mation on the Service Representative in your area. Do not place fingers inside the coupler on either end of the charging gun. Do not allow children to operate this device. Adult supervision is mandatory when children are in proximity to a charge station that is in

Adult supervision is mandatory when children are in proximity to a charge station that is in use. Not for use in commercial garages. Slow Charging only happens in park brake engaged condition. So always keep the park brake engaged during a charging session Change of vehicle state (Ignition OFF to Ignition ON or vice-versa) should be avoided while charging Post switch off the charger, provide min 5 seconds for touching and pulling out the gun. If the charging gun removed and rein- sertion required it could be done after at least 10 seconds of removal of the charging gun from socket. Do not disengage/play around with the Park brake/hand brake while vehicle in fast charging condition. Overcurrent and leakage current pro- tections are given in the home charg- ing box and charging gun. The RCBO should always be in ON state during normal charging use-case and there should be no error (Red) LEDs on the charging gun. In case any tripping of RCBO is observed or error LEDs start blinking on the

on the charging gun. In case any tripping of RCBO is observed or error LEDs start blinking on the Charging gun, please contact TML authorized EV workshop. Home charging box comes with a key and lock. It is recommended to lock the box during overnight charge or when the charging box is not in use to avoid misuse of charging point.  ZX WARNING Unplug both couplers of your Portable Charging Gun before cleaning. @ NOTE During normal operation, the charging gun or couplers may feel warm. If either coupler or the charging gun feels hot during charging, unplug the gun and have a qualified electrician inspect the connections before you continue charg- ing. ZA\ CAUTION Do not use a damaged charging station, plug point or charging port. Using the charger with a worn or damaged port may result in unanticipated conse- quences. A\ WARNING The charger generates electromagnetic waves that can seriously impact med ical electric devices such as an im- plantable cardiac pacemaker in a per- son. When a

impact med ical electric devices such as an im- plantable cardiac pacemaker in a per- son. When a person has an implant like the one mentioned above, make sure to ask the medical team and the manufac- turer whether charging your EV will im- pact the operation of the medical electric device implant. In such case, do not go near the vehicle when it is charg- ing. A\ WARNING Ensure that the charging gun is always stored in a safe place. Do no expose it to rain or wet conditions. Avoid pouring or dripping water or other liquids over it. If water penetrates the electrical de- vices, the risk of electric shock in- creases. Ensure that all plugs and cables are free of moisture before using the charging gun. Never connect the charging gun to the mains with wet or moist hands or when the charging gun is wet. CHARGING @ NOTE Charging station and domestic plug point must be approved/certified by a qualified electrician before using the charging gun. Coupler Receptacle has to have proper

by a qualified electrician before using the charging gun. Coupler Receptacle has to have proper Grounding, electrical connection and has to contain a Resid- ual-Current Circuit Device (RCD). A\ CAUTION Make sure that the device is always stored in a safe place. Do no expose the device to rain or wet conditions. DO NOT use this product if the EV charge connector/cable is damaged. During charging the vehicle must not be exposed to rain, lightning and snow. @NOTE Charging should be done in Ignition OFF state.  CHARGING IMPORTANT TIPS Do and Don’t 46 Do not allow the vehicle to be dis- charged to 0% in storage. Long duration Parking * Avoid parking vehicle below 20% SOC for more than 14 days. * Ideal condition to park vehicle for longer duration (> 14 days) is with SOC between 40% to 60%. + If vehicle is not to be used for very long duration (more than 3 months) and is in parked condition, ensure the SOC between 50% to 60%. + After the resting period the vehicle must be charged to 100%

ensure the SOC between 50% to 60%. + After the resting period the vehicle must be charged to 100% using Slow/AC Charging before use. During the resting period, the user may choose either of the following options to prevent discharge of low voltage battery. * Periodically (weekly once) user may switch on the remote Air con- ditioning for 20-30 mins. This wakes up both the high voltage and low voltage systems and prevents low voltage battery from getting discharged. * If possible, user may choose to dis- connect the negative terminal of the low voltage battery. This results in complete vehicle sleep and min- imum loss of charge for both low voltage and high voltage batteries Do not direct high pressure washer fluid/ water jets (Pressure above 0.5 bar) at electrical devices and con- necter during washing. This is to pre- vent malfunction/failure of electrical system due to water ingress. No High pressure washing in in Motor com- partment, Under-floor battery pack and CCS Charging port.

No High pressure washing in in Motor com- partment, Under-floor battery pack and CCS Charging port. Drive though calm water only and only if it is not deeper than 300mm and at this depth, the vehicle speed to be maintained at creep speed. If car gets completely or partially sub- merged in water, switch off the ignition, evacuate the car and call RSA (Road- side Assistance) at 18002098282 for assistance. As EV service requires certain skillsets and trained manpower, it is always rec- ommended to get the car serviced or repaired at only TML authorized EV workshop. Always check the SOC level before start of journey & ensure car is ade- quately charged. You may check the SOC level on the mobile app also. Remote AC command not to be exe- cuted through mobile app while/during the charge initiation process. If AC is switched ON remotely using Zconnect, it is required to switch it off using the Zconnect app before unlock- ing the vehicle. If it is not followed, the vehicle requires two

the Zconnect app before unlock- ing the vehicle. If it is not followed, the vehicle requires two ignition ON cycle to move as it will not move in the first ignition ON cycle.  TYPES OF CHARGING Charging Instructions 1. Vehicle must be parked with park brake in engage state before connect- ing the charging gun. 2. Vehicle charging port must be free of dust, water or snow while connecting the charging gun; if not proper clean- ing method must be used to remove dust, water and ice. 3. If the charging gun is removed, rein- sertion should be done after at least 10 seconds of removal of the charging gun Types of Charging There are three types of charging avail- able in EV, Normal, AC (WMU) and Fast charging methods. In Normal Charge, plug the charging gun (provided with the car) into a 230V electri- cal outlet. For AC (WMU) charging (If applicable) use wall mounted unit charging gun (provide with WMU) for vehicle charging. For Fast Charging, go to the nearest Fast Charging station to charge

WMU) for vehicle charging. For Fast Charging, go to the nearest Fast Charging station to charge your car ina short duration. Gun Unlocking Feature on EV Once you switch off AC power supply, The charging gun will unlock after pressing charger gun unlock switch available in fas- cia in Normal Charging. In case of Fast Charging it will take around 15 seconds for the charging gun to unlock. CHARGING a7  CHARGING Here are the details of the different types of charging mechanisms: Types Of Charg- Charging Component Specifi ing tion harge Gun * Nominal Voltage: 230V AC RMS Normal/AC Charg-|single Phase 50Hz ing + Power Rating: 3.3Kw AC RMS. a AD, + Rated Current 146A AC RMS . a Aspirations * Nominal Voltage: 230 V AC RMS AC Charging | single Phase 50Hz (WMU) « Power Rating: 7.5Kw AC RMS + Rated Current 32AAC RMS Charging station voltage capability Fast/DC Charging |should be greater than or equal high voltage battery pack nominal voltage. 48  Normal / AC Charging In electricity grid,

or equal high voltage battery pack nominal voltage. 48  Normal / AC Charging In electricity grid, electric power is AC (alternating current) by nature. How- ever, electric power in battery is DC (Direct Current) by nature. Hence, to charge an electric car by AC grid, power has to be converted from AC to DC. And to convert AC power to DC power On-board Charger is used. This type of charging is called Normal charging/AC charging. Normal charging is recommended for usual charging of the vehicle. This charging method is most suitable for parking spots where the car will stay parked for longer duration of time. It takes Approximately 15.5 hours(time for a 0-100% charge, may increase basis factors such as ambient temper- ature, electrical load on meter, vehicle usage during and before charging, air conditioning usage during charging, aux loads etc.) of components to achieve 100 per cent charge with Nor- mal Charging. The charging gun will be locked after switching on the AC sup- ply.

charge with Nor- mal Charging. The charging gun will be locked after switching on the AC sup- ply. Precautions For Normal Charging 1. Proper maintenance of earthling pit is must. Add water & add salts at regular intervals into the earth pits in order to maintain the value of earth resistance. Check annually the condition of the electrodes so as to add or replace electrodes. 2. The electrical socket used for EV charging and its associated wiring should be able to supply 15A dedi- cated load continuously. 3. Check the charging inlet for accumula- tion of dust or any foreign objects. 4. Don’t try to pull off the charging gun during charging. 5. Don’t pull out the charging gun if it is in locked condition as excess force can break or damage the locking mecha- nism. Normal Charging Procedure 1. Engage the Automatic Parking Brake. (Charging won’t start if APB is not en- gaged). CHARGING 2. Connect the plug to AC power socket. TATA MOTORS Connecti ig Aspirations 3. DO NOT plug into a power

the plug to AC power socket. TATA MOTORS Connecti ig Aspirations 3. DO NOT plug into a power strip. 49  CHARGING 4. Open the protective cap on Charging Gun. 50 5. Pull the ‘Charging-inlet Flap Open Lever’ to open the charging inlet flap. 7. Before connecting the charging gun to vehicle charging socket, make sure the gun lock is released. 6. Open the protective cap on Charging Inlet. CAUTION If the Gun Lock is not released please don't insert the Charging Gun forcefully into the socket. It may damage the Charging Socket 8. If the actuator is engaged and the gun is not getting inserted properly, contact TATA MOTORS EV service center. 9. Remove any dust on the Charging  Gun and Charging Inlet. Connect the charging gun to vehicle AC Charging Inlet. CHARGING 10. Switch on the AC supply @ NOTE 11.Charging Gun will be locked after oe . . When vehicle is in Charging Mode, it switching on the AC supply. You will : . . hear a “click” sound, when the gun is will not go in Drive (D), Sport (S) or

supply. You will : . . hear a “click” sound, when the gun is will not go in Drive (D), Sport (S) or Re- verse(R). connected correctly. 12. Normally the car starts automatically charging. If not, please refer ‘Trou- bleshooting Guide for Normal Charg- ing’ table. 13.Open the door and see instrument cluster for State of Charge, Time to Charge and Gun connection status. 14. In case the park brake is not engaged 51  CHARGING or partially engaged the charging won't start and ‘Engage Park Brake to start charging’ message will be displayed on instrument cluster. @ NOTE Infotainment and cabin cooling can be used during charging of the vehicle by putting the vehicle in Ignition. 15. To stop the charging, switch off the AC power supply. 16.The charging gun will be unlocked after switching off the AC supply and pressing charging gun unlock switch 17. Pull out the plug. 52 18.Put on the protective caps on both Charging Gun and Vehicle Inlet. @ NOTE Once Normal/Fast charging is com- pleted, 90

caps on both Charging Gun and Vehicle Inlet. @ NOTE Once Normal/Fast charging is com- pleted, 90 seconds of time gap is re- quired before the vehicle can be started. After turning off the vehicle, wait for four seconds if you want to start the vehicle again. @ NOTE In emergency charging shutdown con- ditions, Gun won't be unlocked. Contact authorised TATA EV Service Centre. In unforeseeable circumstances if the charging gun is stuck to the socket after charging is done, user has to contact the service personnel. No mechanical override to remove the charging gun is available for user.  Normal Charging Control Box Indica- tions: 1. Home 2. Control Box 3. Vehicle 4. Fault CHARGING TATA MOTORS ‘ATA MOTORS Connecting Aspirations 53  CHARGING Working State Home Control Vehicle Fault Example Self-inspection | pink | — Blink Blink | Blink See Sec fe: Se: Self-inspection for system state aes ae aa “a @ No fault Off r ) r ) r Check for engagement of park Standby state brake On Off Off Blink & r

“a @ No fault Off r ) r ) r Check for engagement of park Standby state brake On Off Off Blink & r ) r ) <e- Plug temperature is high i Off ees: @ No fault . og Charging state On On Blink Blink & & se: Se Plug temperature is high ae eas Off & & t ) r ) No fault Charging On On On stopped ‘i Blink & & t ) -e- Plug temperature is high “a 54  Troubleshooting Guide For Normal Charging Refer the below table if charging is not starting or i can be seen on the control box beside the respective LEDs. Fault Cate- Indication CHARGING it stops abruptly. The below symbols of ‘House’, ‘Control Box’, ‘Vehicle’ and ‘Fault’ Recommended Action gory Improper earth connection. Check the earth pit. Short circuit between PE and phase. may f Error in domestic supply side. “Stop Interface fault cod 6 6 @ eink on on en Charging” in home AC voltage is either less than 190V or more than 250V. Error in domestic supply side. “Stop Charging” , ji Proper connection of plug and socket <<: @ @ -s: Blink Off Off |

supply side. “Stop Charging” , ji Proper connection of plug and socket <<: @ @ -s: Blink Off Off | Blink | should be ensured. Also, check socket 4 : rating and use 15A socket sie a -e- Off Blink Off On cont box @ i @ e Contact TATA MOTORS EV Service i ‘ Centre sie sie : x @ -«: @ se: Off | Blink off | Blink 55  CHARGING Fault Cate- Control Indication Vehicle Recommended Action gory Box @oe@ess: @ Off Off Blink On . Go to nearest TATA MOTORS EV Vehicle box ; ‘i Service Centre @@ -«: «: off off Blink | Blink re -Blink 56  AC Charging (Wall Mount Unit) This type of charging will help customer to improve the charging time for vehicle charging. Approximately 6.5 hours (time for a 0- 100% charge, may increase basis factors such as ambient temperature, electrical load on meter, vehicle usage during and before charging, air conditioning usage during charging, aux loads etc.) AC (WMU) Procedure 1. APB should be in engaged condition (Charging won’t start if APB is not en- gaged). 2. Pull the

1. APB should be in engaged condition (Charging won’t start if APB is not en- gaged). 2. Pull the ‘Charging-inlet Flap Open Lever’ to open the charging inlet flap. CHARGING 3. Open the protective cap on Charging Inlet (AC side). 4. Remove the charging gun from the WMU. (WMU will be separately in- stalled at customer end) 57  CHARGING 5. Open the protective cap on WMU Charging Gun. 6. Before connecting the WMU charging gun to vehicle charging socket, make sure the gun lock is released. 7. Ifthe actuator is engaged and the gun is not getting inserted properly, contact TATA MOTORS EV service center. 8. Remove any dust on the Charging Gun and Charging Inlet. Connect the WMU charging gun to vehicle AC WMU Charging Inlet. 9. Scan the RFID provided, on the WMU to start charging. 10. Charging gun will be locked automati- cally. You will hear a “click” sound, when the gun is connected correctly. 11. Normally the car starts automatically charging. If not, please refer ‘Trou- bleshooting Guide

11. Normally the car starts automatically charging. If not, please refer ‘Trou- bleshooting Guide in WMU’s owners’ manual. 12.Open the door and see instrument cluster for State of Charge, Time to Charge and Gun connection status. 13. To stop the charging, scan the RFID on WMU. 14.The charging gun will be unlocked after pressing the fascia switch on the dashboard panel. Pull out the gun.  15.Put on the protective caps on both Charging Gun and Vehicle Inlet. Place he Charging gun back and close the charging inlet flap. Fast / DC Charging + Fast charging of electric vehicle is achieved by using Fast/DC charging stations; they convert the AC power rom the grid to DC power and can di- rectly charge the HV battery pack thus bypassing the On-Board Charger. * Fast charging can be done wherever Fast/DC charging station is available. User can charge at high speeds at public charging stations. @ NOTE Battery performance and durability can deteriorate if the fast charger is used constantly. Use

NOTE Battery performance and durability can deteriorate if the fast charger is used constantly. Use of Fast Charging should be minimized in order to help prolong high voltage battery life. After a maximum of four fast charging cycles, the battery pack you must use Normal charging to 100% State of Charge for the optimum performance of the high voltage battery pack. Electric vehicle can be fast charged using any fast charging station or equipment compliant to Combined Charging System standard having Type 2 connector (CCS Type 2). It takes 60 minutes (time for a 0- 80% charge, may increase basis factors such as charger rating, ambient tempera- ture, vehicle usage during and before charging, air conditioning usage during charging, aux loads etc.) for the high volt- age battery to charge from 0% to 80% using any CCS Type 2 fast charging sta- tion. The charging gun will be locked after switching on the DC supply. ONoTE 2. Pull Depending on the condition and dura- bility of the high voltage

on the DC supply. ONoTE 2. Pull Depending on the condition and dura- bility of the high voltage battery, charger specifications, charger rating, and am CHARGING bient temperature, the time required for charging the high voltage battery may vary. Fast Charging Procedure 1. Engage the Automatic parking brake (APB) switch. (Charging won't start if APB is not engaged). out the Charging Gun from DC/Fast Charging Station. 3. Open the protective cap on Charging Gun. 59  CHARGING 4. Pull the ‘Charging-inlet Flap Open Lever’ to open the charging door. 5. Open the charger-inlet flap. 6. Before connecting the charging gun to vehicle charging socket, make sure the gun lock is released. A\ CAUTION 10. If the Gun Lock is not released please don’t insert the Charging Gun forcefully into the socket. It may damage the Charging Socket. 60 Remove any dust on the Charging Gun and Charging Inlet. . Connect the charging gun to vehicle AC and DC Charging Inlet. . Switch on the DC charging station sup- ply.

the charging gun to vehicle AC and DC Charging Inlet. . Switch on the DC charging station sup- ply. Charging Gun will be locked after switching on the DC charging station. . You hear a “click”, when the Gun is connected correctly, Click sound is be- cause of Gun locking after supply is switched on. 12. Normally the car starts automatically charging. If not, please refer Charging Gun’s Fault Indication & Indication Pri- ority Table on the charging station. @ NOTE When vehicle is in Charging Mode, it will not go in Drive (D), Sport (S) or Re- verse (R). 13. To know the State of Charge, Time to Charge and Gun connection status please see instrument cluster. This sta- tus is displayed only when driver door is opened.  14. In case the park brake is not engaged or partially engaged the charging won't start and ‘Engage Park Brake to start charging’ message will be displayed on instrument cluster. @ NOTE Infotainment and cabin cooling can be used during charging of the vehicle by putting the

@ NOTE Infotainment and cabin cooling can be used during charging of the vehicle by putting the vehicle in Ignition. 15.To stop the charging, switch off DC charging station. 16. The charging gun will be unlocked 15 seconds after switching off the supply from DC charging station. For fast charging no fascia switch input is re- quired. It unlocks automatically. 17.Put on the protective caps on both Charging Gun and Vehicle Inlet. @ NOTE If you remove the charging gun from the vehicle and if you wish to reinsert the gun to recharge the vehicle, please wait for at least 10 seconds before charging gun is plugged again. @ NOTE In emergency charging shutdown con- ditions, Gun won't be unlocked. Contact authorised TATA EV Service Centre. CHARGING 61  CHARGING State Of Charge (SoC) Gauge For High Voltage Battery Provided in the instrument cluster as a telltale. It shows the charging status of the high voltage battery. Low charge or minimum position on the indicator indicates that there is not

high voltage battery. Low charge or minimum position on the indicator indicates that there is not enough energy in the high voltage battery. Full charge or max position indicates that the HV battery is fully charged. + When driving on highways, make sure to check in advance if the HV battery is charged enough. + When the bar turns red on the high voltage charge indicator, the low charge warning lamp turns ON to alert you of the battery level. + When SoC < 25%, sports mode cannot be selected. There is no limiting to speed. <10% SoC Speed limit will be there (limp home). @ 4% SoC, AC will be turned OFF. a - "50% - = aE 75% 100% Action to be Taken When Charging Stops Abruptly * Check the reason for interruption of charging.(Refer ‘Troubleshooting guide for Normal Charging’ table). * Switch off the AC supply. * Remove the charging gun from the charging inlet. + Wait for 5 minutes. + Restart the charging. (Refer charging procedure). Cleaning of Charging Inlet Covering the charging gun and

the charging. (Refer charging procedure). Cleaning of Charging Inlet Covering the charging gun and charging inlet by dust cap will ensure protection from water and dust. 62  CHARGING Precautions to be Taken While Cleaning the Charging Inlet @ NOTE Water entering into the charging port will always be drained through the drain system. If water is stagnant in charging port area call Tata MOTORS Authorised EV service centre to rectify the issue. Keep the vehicle lid always closed When the lid is open ensure that dust caps are in closed position During normal charging, make sure that DC charging cap is closed In case of any dust/mud/snow accumulation in the charging port and also on CCS2 especially actuator area, it can be cleaned with blowing air before charging. Allow the water to drain completely through drain holes. Allow the charging port to dry completely. 63  CHARGING CPL while charging the vehicle Functions Cpl Condition 1 Charging state Charging gun in Plug | Charging sequence is

the vehicle Functions Cpl Condition 1 Charging state Charging gun in Plug | Charging sequence is displayed on vehicle (CPL). With animation running condition outwards progressively. 2 Discharging State Charging gun in Un- | Charging sequence is displayed on vehicle (CPL) With animation running Plug condition inwards progressively. | Charging error is displayed on vehicle (CPL) By blinking of some portion 3 Charging Error Charging gun Not of CPL in center. connected Properly. 64  CHARGING DO’S AND DON’TS The charging gun provided for home charging has to be stored safely and securely in the trunk of the vehicle or has to be plugged on to the Home Charging Box in locked condition. The wall box charging unit is also used for slow or home charging. It comes with a key and lock. It is recommended to lock the home charging box when the vehicle is kept for overnight charg- ing or when nobody is around while the vehicle is being slow charged. This en- sures that the charging unit along with

is around while the vehicle is being slow charged. This en- sures that the charging unit along with the charging gun cannot be misused or stolen. Wet surfaces are good conductors of electricity. Though the vehicle is equipped with safety mechanisms to protect users, it is advisable to take a few precaution while plugging in for charging. Hence, before charging, en- sure that the power source socket, the charging gun and the charging port (CCS2) port in the vehicle are dry. Also ensure that you are standing on dry ground and your hands are dry as well while using the high voltage charging equipment. Usage of damaged cables, Power Source socket and vehicle side CCS2 port must be avoided as they may re- sult in electrical hazard and inconsis- tent charging experience. While plugging in for home charging, ensure power source is off. Subse- quently ensure charging gun is con- nected at both ends — One at power source and the other at vehicle’s CCS2 port. Then switch ON the power source

ends — One at power source and the other at vehicle’s CCS2 port. Then switch ON the power source switch to commence charging. Confirm that the vehicle is charging from the green charging tell tale displayed on the instrument cluster. The cluster re- mains ON to display charging status for 60 sec after the start of charging. If charging gun is removed before 100% charging and again needs charging upto 100%, it is advisable to wait for at least 10 seconds before reinserting the gun in the charging port. CHARGING Once charging is complete and gun is removed from the charging port, it is advisable to pause for 30 sec before switching on the car to start driving. When the vehicle is shuttoff after drive, it is advisable to pause for at least 10- 15 sec before charging. It allows the vehicle’s electrical system time to de- energize and stabilize before the charging commences. 65  CHARGING V2X CHARGING The V2X charging system offers a flexible and energy exchange method for charging electric

CHARGING The V2X charging system offers a flexible and energy exchange method for charging electric vehicles (EVs) without the need for charging stations. Anew framework for ve- hicle-to-vehicle charging technology is in- troduced that can work plug-in electric cars. Below parcel tray RH side in luggage com- partment Vehicle Ignition OFF / ON Conditions The transponder in the ignition key carries a Unique Identification Code (UID). The 66 vehicle unlocks when the code on the key matches with the code on the Battery Management System (BMS). In case oj PEPS variant, Immobilizer function is provided by PEPS ECU. Vehicle To Vehicle Charging (V2V) V2V Gun Vehicle Ignition OFF state 1. User can decide the discharge SOC limit of the source vehicle (donor) and can preset the SOC limit in infotain- ment before starting the V2V function. * Since infotainment system won't be awake in Ignition OFF state, Limit can be set only in ignition ON or Crank on condition. « Discharge SOC Limit cannot be

state, Limit can be set only in ignition ON or Crank on condition. « Discharge SOC Limit cannot be changed during the V2V function. « Incase if no limit is set by the user, 30% SOC will be consider as de- fault discharge SOC limit . Keep both sink (recipient) and source (donor) vehicle nearby and ensure maximum up to 3m distance between the charging inlets of the vehicles. Make sure to keep the vehicles and the V2V charger in dry environment/in shade If the Source/sink vehicle is in OFF state, Open/close the door or if vehicle is in locked state Press RKE unlock Button and open the door to wake up the vehicle control unit. Once wakes up, Vehicle control unit will remains in wakeup state for 120sec Remove the caps & connect the V2V gun to the source and sink vehicle within in 120sec of step 4. Check the  labels on the V2V gun and make sure that the V2Vgun side labeled as “source” should connect to the source vehicle & the other end labeled as “sink” should connect to the sink vehi-

connect to the source vehicle & the other end labeled as “sink” should connect to the sink vehi- cle. If user couldn’t connect the V2V gun within 120sec of step4. Remove the Gun completely and repeat from step 4 6. Make sure park-brake/EPB is en- gaged. 7. Ensure V2V gun is connected to both vehicles and press the V2X switch of source vehicle within 120sec of step5 to start the 220V AC power supply and to charge the sink vehicle. If user couldn’t press V2X_ switch within 120sec of successful step 5. Remove the Gun completely and repeat from step 4 to initiate the V2V function again. 8. Check for the telltale indication fre- quently when the V2V function is in progress to ensure there is no interrup- tion/fault. 9. V2V function will stop from source ve- hicle side, if there is no energy dissipa- tion has happened for 100secs from successful step 7. In this case, remove the gun completely and start from step 4 to reinitiate the V2V function 10. Charging will automatically stop if the

and start from step 4 to reinitiate the V2V function 10. Charging will automatically stop if the source vehicle SOC goes below the user set SOC limit or at 30%. In that case follow the procedure from step 16. 11. Also monitor the SOC of both vehicles frequently to check if sink vehicle is charged enough/ source vehicle SOC is reached the minimum required SOC level 12. To stop the V2V charging from source vehicle side, press the V2X switch of source vehicle to disable the 220V AC supply and follow from step 16 after 5sec 13. To stop the V2V charging from sink ve- hicle side, press its fascia switch and then ensure to press the V2X switch of source vehicle to stop the AC power supply. & follow step 14 14. After 5 sec delay press source vehicle CHARGING fascia switch and then remove both the guns 15. In case V2V charging gets interrupted from source/sink vehicle side due to any fault, Press the Gun unlock fascia switch in both vehicle and completely remove the gun from both side and re-

the Gun unlock fascia switch in both vehicle and completely remove the gun from both side and re- peat from step 4. If the issue still re- mains, Press the Gun unlock fascia of both vehicle and completely remove the gun. After that keep the vehicles in Ignition OFF state for 120 seconds. Then repeat from Step 4.If the charg- ing get interrupted again from vehicle side go to step 16 and contact nearby TAT service station 16.To remove the gun, Press Fascia switch of both vehicles. Close the V2V charging gun caps to ensure that it is not exposed to mud/metal particle etc. DON’TS 1. Don’t shift the gear 2. Don’t crank source or sink vehicle dur- ing V2V charging 3. Don’t use un authorized V2V gun 67  CHARGING 4. 10. 11. 12. 68 Don’t press the V2X switch of sink ve- hicle throughout the V2V function Don’t keep the V2V charging gun open at sink vehicle side while pressing the v2x switch in the source vehicle Don’t perform V2V charging in other vehicles which is not recommended by the TPEM (

source vehicle Don’t perform V2V charging in other vehicles which is not recommended by the TPEM ( list to be published later) as source and sink vehicle Don’t keep the V2V gun caps open after the use to ensure it is not ex- posed to mud/metal particle etc. Don’t start V2V charging function if source Vehicle SOC is lesser than or equal to 30%. Do not perform V2V charging during rain or in any situation where it might be exposed to water Don’t press V2X switch and fascia switch together to stop the function( keep minimum 5sec delay ) Don’t keep both vehicle at far distance where the gun has to stretch maximum to connect between the vehicles. Don’t disengage the park brake in ei- 13 14 15. ther of the vehicles during the charg- ing. .Do not insert the V2L connector when vehicle is in Crank or EV ready condi- tion. . Don’t disassemble or remodel the V2V adaptor Don’t Drop the V2V gun to cause high impact and don’t keep heavy objects over the gun Vehicle Ignition ON state 1. Keep both

cause high impact and don’t keep heavy objects over the gun Vehicle Ignition ON state 1. Keep both sink (recipient) and source (donor) vehicle nearby and ensure maximum up to 3m distance between the charging inlets of the vehicles. Turn ON the ignition of both sink (re- cipient)/source (donor) vehicle. Make sure to keep the vehicles in Ignition ON mode throughout the procedure Engage the park-break OR EPB of both vehicles. Remove the caps & connect the V2V gun to the source and sink vehicle. Check the labels on the V2V gun and make sure that the V2Vgun side la- beled as “source” should connect to the source vehicle & the other end la- beled as “sink” should connect to the sink vehicle. Ensure V2V gun is connected to both vehicles and press the V2X switch of source vehicle to start the 220V AC power supply and to charge the sink vehicle. ( TBC with VCU team-V2V status if V2X switch enabled in sink ve- hicle also) . Check telltale indication in instrument cluster of vehicles to ensure

in sink ve- hicle also) . Check telltale indication in instrument cluster of vehicles to ensure V2V charging is on.( check for the HMI) . Check for the telltale indication fre- quently when the V2V charging is in progress to ensure there is no interrup- tion/fault. . Charging will automatically stop if the source vehicle SOC goes below 30%. In that case follow the procedure from step 14. . Also monitor the SOC of both vehicles frequently to check if sink vehicle is charged enough/ source vehicle SOC is reached the minimum required SOC  10. 11. 12. 13. level If SOC of source vehicle reaches the agreed Limit and to stop the V2V charging from source vehicle side, press the V2X switch of source vehicle to disable the 220V AC supply and fol- low from step 14 after 5sec If Sink vehicle is charged up to the agreed SOC level and to stop the V2V charging from sink vehicle side, press its fascia switch to stop charging and then ensure to press the V2X switch of source vehicle to stop the AC

switch to stop charging and then ensure to press the V2X switch of source vehicle to stop the AC power supply. & follow step 12 After 5 sec delay press source vehicle fascia switch and then remove both the guns & follow step 15 In case V2V charging gets interrupted from source/sink vehicle side due to any fault, Press the Gun unlock fascia switch in both vehicle and completely remove the gun from both side while keeping the vehicles in Ignition ON and repeat from step 1. If the issue still re- mains, Press the Gun unlock fascia switch in both vehicle and completely remove the gun from both side both. After that both vehicle should brought in to ignition OFF state. Keep the vehi- cles in Ignition OFF state for 30sec. Then repeat from Step 1. If the charg- ing get interrupted again from vehicle side go to step 14 to 15 and contact service station. 14.To remove the gun, Press Fascia switch of both vehicles. Close the V2V adaptor caps to ensure that it is not ex- posed to mud/metal

switch of both vehicles. Close the V2V adaptor caps to ensure that it is not ex- posed to mud/metal particle etc. 15. Turn off the Ignition in both vehicles DON’T’S 1. Don’t switch off the Ignition in source or sink vehicle during V2V charging 2. Don’t crank source or sink vehicle dur- ing V2V charging 3. Don’t use un authorized V2V gun 4. Don’t press the V2X switch of sink ve- hicle throughout the sink vehicle charging 5. Don’t keep the V2V charging gun open at sink vehicle side while pressing the v2x switch in the source vehicle after 10. 11. 12. 13. CHARGING connecting the source side gun. Don’t perform V2V charging in other vehicles which is not recommended by the TPEM ( list to be published later) as source and sink vehicle Don’t keep the V2V gun caps open after the use to ensure it is not ex- posed to mud/metal particle etc. Don’t start V2V charging function if source Vehicle SOC is lesser than or equal to 30%. Do not perform V2V charging during rain or in any situation where it

lesser than or equal to 30%. Do not perform V2V charging during rain or in any situation where it might be exposed to water Don’t press V2X switch and fascia switch together to stop the function(keep minimum 5sec delay ) Don’t keep both vehicle at far distance where the gun has to stretch maximum to connect between the vehicles. Don’t disengage the park brake in ei- ther of the vehicles during the charg- ing. Don’t insert the V2L connector when vehicle is in Crank or EV ready condi- 69  CHARGING tion. Vehicle To Load Charging (V2L) Vehicle Ignition OFF state 1. 70 User can decide the discharge SOC limit of the vehicle and can preset the SOC limit in infotainment before start- ing the V2L function. * Since infotainment system won't be awake in Ignition OFF state, Limit can be set only in ignition ON or Crank ON condition in the previous cycle. + Discharge SOC Limit cannot be changed during the V2L function. + — Incase if no limit is set by the user, 30% SOC will be consider as de-

during the V2L function. + — Incase if no limit is set by the user, 30% SOC will be consider as de- fault discharge SOC limit . Make sure to keep the vehicle and the V2L adaptor in dry environment/in shade . If the vehicle is in OFF state, Open/close the door or If vehicle is in locked state Press RKE unlock button and open the door to wake up the ve- hicle control unit. Once wakes up, Ve- hicle control unit will remains in wakeup state for 120sec . Remove the V2L adaptor caps & con- nect the V2L adaptor gun to the source vehicle within in 120sec of step 3. . Make sure park-brake/EPB is en- gaged. . If user couldn’t connect the V2L gun within 120sec of step 3, then remove the Gun completely and repeat from step 3 . Connect external load to the V2L adaptor 3pin socket. Make sure that Electrical loads are healthy/in good condition and ensure the relevant ca- bles and plugs of loads are connected properly. «+ When using multiple loads make sure Total power consumption of the loads should

properly. «+ When using multiple loads make sure Total power consumption of the loads should be lesser than 3.3Kw or total current demand of loads should be lesser than 16A. «If the electric appliances demand exceed the maximum power and current capacity that the vehicle can provide, V2L function will stop from vehicle side + It is recommended to use home appliances with Power factor greater than 0.85 + If multiple loads are connected on extension box, it is recommended to use extension box with MCB (16A) & with M Type plug and socket. The MCB switch needs to be in switched off/ turned off condi- tion 8. Press V2X switch with in 120sec of  10. 11. 12. 13. 14. step 4 to start 220V AC power supply from vehicle. If user couldn’t press V2X switch within 120sec of step 3. Re- move the Gun completely and repeat from step 3 to initiate the V2L function. Ensure safety precaution against the live 220VAC voltage in the V2L adap- tor Turn on the loads. Check telltale indication in instrument

live 220VAC voltage in the V2L adap- tor Turn on the loads. Check telltale indication in instrument cluster to ensure V2L discharging is initiated/in progress Check for the telltale indication fre- quently when the V2L discharge func- ion is in progress to ensure there is no interruption/fault. V2L function will stop if there is no en- ergy dissipation has happened/if there is no load is connected for 100secs rom successful step 8. In this case, re- move the gun completely and start rom step 3 to reinitiate the V2L dis- charge function To stop the V2L discharge function, First switch off the external loads and hen press V2X switch second time to 15. 16. 17. disable the 220V AC power supply and Go to step 17. V2L function will automatically stops if the source vehicle SOC goes below the user set value or at the default value of 30%. In that case go to step 17 In case V2L function gets interrupted from vehicle side due to any fault, Press the Gun unlock fascia switch in vehicle and

interrupted from vehicle side due to any fault, Press the Gun unlock fascia switch in vehicle and completely remove the gun repeat from step 3. ¢ If the issue still remains, Press the Gun unlock fascia and completely remove the gun. Keep the vehicles in Ignition OFF state for 120sec. Then repeat from Step 3. « If the charging get interrupted again from vehicle side go to step 17 and vehicle along with the V2L adaptor need to be taken to nearby TATA service station Switch off and remove the Connected Loads then Press Fascia switch and remove the V2L adaptor. (Close the V2L adaptor caps to ensure it is not ex- CHARGING posed to mud/metal particle etc). DON’TS 1. Don’t crank the vehicle during V2L charging Don’t use unauthorized V2L adaptor Don’t use High power home appli- ances like air conditioner, dryer having power consumption more than 3.3Kw and current requirement more than 16A Don’t hang the appliances on the V2L adaptor Don’t use appliances or extension box which is not having

hang the appliances on the V2L adaptor Don’t use appliances or extension box which is not having national safety cer- tificate. Refer each device manual to know the usage and precautions to be taken. Don’t use any unhealthy or improper electrical connection/ apparatus for V2L discharge function like loads with insulation failure, short circuit, im- proper 3pin/2pin plug, open cables without plug) Don’t allow the appliances/extension box cables to twist or overlapped. 71  CHARGING use the appliances if its cable 8. Don’ sheath is damaged. 9. Don’t use the electric devices which re- quire continues power supply like med- ical equipment. since AC power supply may get interrupt based on the vehicle condition 10. Don’t use the load which required high power at the starting/initial operation 11. Don’t use the loads which is sensitive to Inverter type AC supply 12.Don’t touch V2L adaptor socket side during V2L function 13. Don’t keep the V2L adaptor caps open after the use to ensure it is

side during V2L function 13. Don’t keep the V2L adaptor caps open after the use to ensure it is not ex- posed to mud/metal particle etc. 14. Don’t start V2L charging function if Ve- hicle SoC is lesser than 30%. 15. Don’t perform V2L charging during rain or in any situation where it might be ex- posed to water 16.Don’t press V2X switch and fascia switch together to stop the function.( keep minimum 5sec delay) V2L charging 18. Don’t mishandle the V2L adaptor. 19. Do not insert the V2L connector when vehicle is in Crank or EV ready condi- tion. 20. Don’t shift the gear 21. Don’t disassemble or remodel the V2L adaptor 22.Don’t Drop the V2L adaptor to cause high impact and don’t keep heavy ob- jects over the adaptor Vehicle Ignition ON state 1. Turn ON the source vehicle ignition. Make sure to keep the vehicle in Igni- ion ON mode throughout the proce- dure. 2. Make sure to engage the park- brake/EPB. 3. Make sure to keep the vehicle and the V2L adaptor in dry environment/in shade. 4.

brake/EPB. 3. Make sure to keep the vehicle and the V2L adaptor in dry environment/in shade. 4. Remove the caps & connect the V2L adaptor gun to the source vehicle. 5. Connect external load to the V2L adaptor 3pin socket. + Make sure that Electrical loads to be used for V2L charging are healthy/in good condition and en- sure the relevant cables and plugs of loads are connected properly. * Total power consumption of the loads used should be lesser than 3.3Kw and it is recommended to use the loads with Power factor greater than 0.85 + In case of multiple loads, it is rec- ommended to use extension box with MCB (16A) & with M Type plug and socket. 6. Press the V2X switch to start the 220V AC power supply.( check for the HMI). 7. Ensure safety precaution against the live 220VAC voltage in the V2L adap- tor 8. Turn on the loads. 9. Check telltale indication in instrument cluster to ensure discharging is initi- ated/in progress.( check for the HMI) 10. Check for the telltale indication fre-

is initi- ated/in progress.( check for the HMI) 10. Check for the telltale indication fre- 17. Don’t disengage the park brake during 72  11. 12. 13. quently when the V2L is in progress to ensure there is no interruption/fault. To stop the V2L charging, first switch off the External loads and then Press V2X switch in the vehicle to stop the AC power supply and Go to step 14 .( check for the HMI) V2L charging function will automati- cally stops if the source vehicle SOC goes below 30%(Configurable). In that case go to step 14.( check for the HMI & telltale indication on instrument clus- ter) In case V2L charging gets interrupted from vehicle side due to any fault, , Press the Gun unlock fascia switch in vehicle and completely remove the gun while keeping the vehicles in Igni- tion ON and repeat from step 1 ¢ If the issue still remains, Press the Gun unlock fascia and completely remove the gun. After that vehicle should brought in to ignition OFF state. Keep the vehicles in Ignition OFF

gun. After that vehicle should brought in to ignition OFF state. Keep the vehicles in Ignition OFF state for 30sec. Then repeat from Step 1. * If the charging get interrupted again from vehicle side go to step 14 to 15 and vehicle along with the V2L adaptor need to be taken to service station. 14. Switch off the Connected Loads then 15. Turn OFF DON’T’S 1. Press Fascia switch and remove the V2L adaptor and connected loads. (Close the V2L adaptor caps to ensure it is not exposed to mud/metal particle etc.) he vehicle ignition. Don’t switch off the vehicle Ignition dur- ing V2L charging Don’t crank the vehicle during V2L charging Don’t use unauthorized V2L adaptor Don’t use any unhealthy or improper electrical connection/ apparatus for V2L charging. ( e.g.: loads having power consumption>3.3Kw , insulation failure, short circuit, improper 3pin/2pin plug, open cables without plug) Don’t keep the V2L adaptor caps open 10. 11. CHARGING after the use to ensure it is not ex- posed to

keep the V2L adaptor caps open 10. 11. CHARGING after the use to ensure it is not ex- posed to mud/metal particle etc. Don’t start V2L charging function if Ve- hicle SOC is lesser than 30%. Don’t perform V2L charging during rain or in any situation where it might be ex- posed to water Don’t press V2X switch and fascia switch together to stop the function.( keep minimum 5sec delay) Don’t disengage the park brake during V2L charging mishandle the V2L adaptor. Do not insert the V2L connector when vehicle is in Crank or EV ready condi- tion. Don’ 73  OPENING AND KEYS A key is an electroni CLOSING ic access and authori- zation system available as a standard fea- ture with your vehic! ie. Unlocking Principle The transponder in tl a Unique Identifica he ignition key carries ion Code (UID). The vehicle unlocks when the code on the key matches with the code on the vehicle Man- agement System (EI variant, Immobilizer PEPS ECU. Loss of Keys MS). In case of PEPS unction is provided by If one of

variant, Immobilizer PEPS ECU. Loss of Keys MS). In case of PEPS unction is provided by If one of the keys is lost, Contact the TATA MOTORS Authorized Dealer/Service Cen- ter immediately. A\ WARNING * Do not turn ‘ON’ ignition switch by using key with any type of metal wound around with it. This ma its grip or in contact y be detected as ab- normal condition by immobilizer and prevent vehicle from starting. 74 Do not leave the key in high temper- ature areas. The transponder in it will behave abnormally when reused.  OPENING AND CLOSING TYPES of KEYS Sn Name Remote Key Description Locking all doors Approach light 1. Smart Key (PEPS mart Key ( ) Tail gate opening Pons Unlocking all doors 75  OPENING AND CLOSING Smart Key (PEPS)(if equipped) Keep the smart key with user to perform he passive access. It is used for locking, unlocking and starting the vehicle. 1. Locking all doors 2. Approach Light 3. Tail gate opening 4. Unlocking all doors Locking All Doors Press the lock button once

Light 3. Tail gate opening 4. Unlocking all doors Locking All Doors Press the lock button once (1) to lock all the doors of the vehicle. Successful lock will be indicated by two flashes of turn sig- 76 nal indicators. If lock button is pressed on the key with the any door open, locking- unlocking takes place with audible warning indicators do not flash. Approach Light This feature helps to find and reach the parked vehicle. When you press approach light button (2) once, low beam, roof lamp and position lamps will turn ‘ON’. This fea- ture helps to find and reach the parked ve- hicle or to reach home in dark/ cloudy condition after parking. To switch ‘OFF’ the approach lights, press and release the same button or it automatically turns ‘OFF’ after approx. 30 sec. Unlocking All Doors Press the unlock button once (4) to unlock all the doors. Successful unlock will be in- dicated by one flashes of turn signal indi- cators. If smart key battery is low/drained or ve- hicle battery is

flashes of turn signal indi- cators. If smart key battery is low/drained or ve- hicle battery is low/drained, user can unlock and enter into vehicle by using mechanical key blade, which is present inside the smart key. Tail Gate Opening Press the tail gate opening button once (3) to unlock the tailgate with in authentication range of Smart key i.e. 1 to 1.5 meters. Emergency Key Blade IN / OUT Slide the knob (1) to release the key. Pul the key blade (2) out.  Smart Key Features Vehicle Search In vehicle locked condition, if lock button on smart key is pressed, the turn indica- tors of vehicle flashes 4 times. In vehicle locked condition, if lock button on smart key is pressed, the turn indicators of vehi- cle flashes 4 times. Auto Locking / Unlocking Of Doors / Auto Relock In PEPS variants, door will get unlocked when ignition is OFF by pressing Start Stop switch. In PEPS variants, door will get unlocked when ignition is OFF by pressing Start Stop switch. Anti-grab / Anti-scan Coding

will get unlocked when ignition is OFF by pressing Start Stop switch. Anti-grab / Anti-scan Coding The remote control set of this security sys- tem is protected against the use of devices called ‘scanners’ and ‘grabbers’ which can record and reproduce some types of re- mote codes. Important Tips * Don’t operate Unlock button of remote in the vicinity of your vehicle, as it could lead to an unintentional unlock- ing your vehicle. For battery, replacement procedure refer ‘MAINTENANCE’ section. Do not remove the battery connection of the vehicle while the vehicle has been locked by remote. OPENING AND CLOSING Smart Key Precautions 1. If smart key is close to radio transmitter such as radio station or an airport which can interfere with normal opera- tion of the transmitter. 2. If smart key is near a mobile two way radio system or a cellular phone, then it will not work properly. 3. If another vehicle’s smart key is being operated close to your vehicle, signal will fluctuate. @ NOTE Keep

vehicle’s smart key is being operated close to your vehicle, signal will fluctuate. @ NOTE Keep smart key away from electromag- netic materials that blocks electromag- netic waves to the key surface. 77  OPENING AND CLOSING Force Panic ON Operation When vehicle is in OFF condition, if we press lock button and unlock button simul- taneously, Force panic operation gets ac- tivated. In this case, turn indicators of vehicle start flashing and horn will blow au- tomatically. When vehicle is in OFF condi- tion, if we press lock button and unlock button simultaneously, Force panic opera- tion gets activated. In this case, turn indi- cators of vehicle start flashing and horn will blow automatically. Force Panic OFF Operation By pressing any button of smart key, Force panic operation gets deactivated. 78 DOORS Option 1- Door Locking / Unlocking with Key from Outside Driver door can be locked or unlocked from outside using the key blade. Insert the key and turn it clockwise to lock and

or unlocked from outside using the key blade. Insert the key and turn it clockwise to lock and anticlockwise to unlock the door. Door Locking / Unlocking using Door Handle Switch (DHS) To lock/unlock all the doors without oper- ating smart key button/ key blade. Press the door handle switch (DHS) provided on the driver door to lock/unlock all the four doors except Tail gate. @ NOTE + Authentication range for smart key shall be 1 to 1.5 meters from outside the respective door or tail gate.  + Passive entry only works during ig- nition off. Horn Honking when Door Locking using Door Handle Switch (DHS) If vehicle is in unlock condition and smart key is not available, (i.e. Smart Key is present away from authentication range) and if you try to lock the vehicle through door handle switch then vehicle horn honking gets activated for 9 sec. If vehicle is in unlock condition and Smart key is present inside the vehicle. If you try to press the door handle switch then vehi- cle horn honking

present inside the vehicle. If you try to press the door handle switch then vehi- cle horn honking gets activated for 9 sec. Locking / Unlocking The Doors From Inside All doors can be opened from inside by pressing knob on driver door and inde- pendently on other doors. OPENING AND CLOSING Pull the door opening knob (1) and then opening lever (2). NOTE There is a single pull override feature on driver door. All door can be unlocked by inner handle without operating lock knob of inner handle. Rear Door Opening Door opening handle is provided on the side of the window. To open the door, press the lever provided inside the handle and pull. 79  OPENING AND CLOSING WINDOWS Power Windows Front Window Switch Front Window Switch Rear Window Switch Rear Window Switch Inhibit Switch Left) Right) Left) Right) ( ( ( ( 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. Window glasses on all four doors can be operated by switches provided on the main control panel located on the driver’s arm rest. They work only when the key is in

on the main control panel located on the driver’s arm rest. They work only when the key is in the ‘IGN ON’ position. 80 NOTE Power windows can be operated for 30 seconds in ‘IGN OFF’ and ‘KEY OUT’ positions, provided the doors are closed. Express Down Window glass can be opened by a single long press of the switch. Express down feature is provided for the driver’s door only. Inhibit Switch When switch is pressed, red light turns ‘OFF’. The individual switches provided on other doors are not functional. It can be only operated by driver side switch. As the switch is depressed red light turns ON and individual switches became functional. ZX WARNING + If children operate the windows they could get trapped, particularly if they are left unsupervised. There is also a risk of injury. + Activate the window inhibit feature when children are travelling. When leaving the vehicle, always take the key with you and lock the vehicle. Never leave children unsupervised in the vehicle.  Individual

key with you and lock the vehicle. Never leave children unsupervised in the vehicle.  Individual Switches Individual switch has been provided on all => To close the glass pull the switch in up- ward direction. To open the glass press the switch in downward direction. BONNET AND CHARGING FLAP Bonnet Opening doors. 1. OPENING AND CLOSING —s n Make sure that the vehicle is in neutral and the parking brake is engaged. Pull the bonnet release lever. The bon- net will pop up slightly. Raise the bonnet slightly and with your finger slide the secondary lock lever Make sure that the wiper arms are not raised before you lift up the bonnet to avoid damaging the wiper arms and the bonnet. 4. Lift the bonnet up. Pull the bonnet stay rod from its clip and insert the free end into the slot provided on frame. Insert the stay rod into the hole se- curely. If the rod drops off, your body 81  OPENING AND CLOSING may be caught below the bonnet. Bonnet Closing 1. To close the bonnet, hold the bonnet by

CLOSING may be caught below the bonnet. Bonnet Closing 1. To close the bonnet, hold the bonnet by one hand, disengage the stay rod and clamp it back properly. 2. Lower the bonnet close to the bumper, then let it drop down. Ensure that the bonnet is properly locked before driving or it can fly up un- expectedly during driving. 82 Opening Battery Charge Flap To release the charging flap, pull the lever located at the right hand side below the driver seat. For opening, open the charging flap, turn the charging lever counter clockwise. To unlatch the flap, pull the lever located on the right hand side below the driver seat. If charge cap needs replacement, make sure that it is replaced by a genuine cap at TATA MOTORS Authorized EV Service Centre only. For closing, turn the charging cap clock- wise and gently push the flap till it gets locked.  OPENING AND CLOSING TAIL GATE OPENING Option Operation To release the tailgate, press the tail gate button on . the remote. Option | Note: Tailgate

To release the tailgate, press the tail gate button on . the remote. Option | Note: Tailgate can be unlatched without smart key. By pressing tail gate button on smart key and pressing tail gate door, handle switch with 30 second. Using Smart Key To open the tail gate, press the switch located on fas- cia switch. Note: If vehicle is in locked condition then tail gate un- latch via fascia switch will work only in ignition ON con- dition. Option II Through Fascia switch If the vehicle is locked, tail gate is closed and tail gate DHS switch is pressed with valid smart key in the au- thentication range the tail gate gets unlatched. On closing the tail gate door, it gets locked. While closing the tail gate, if doors are in locked condition and valid smart key is inside the trunk, then tail gate gets un- locked. Option III 83  OPENING AND CLOSING ZA\ WARNING @NOTE 84 After unlatching, tailgate doesn’t get opened automatically. Tailgate should not be opened hold- ing tailgate garnish, this

doesn’t get opened automatically. Tailgate should not be opened hold- ing tailgate garnish, this might dam- age the part. It is suggested to open through tailgate edge. Tailgate can’t be locked using Me- chanical Key/Flip Key/Smart Key. It can only be locked by slamming it. During closing Tail gate if doors are in locked condition and valid smart key is inside the trunk, then Tail be unlocked by pressing tailgate switch. Tail gate once unlatch it will not get locked automatically with other doors. For Tail gate unlatch remote opera- tion, vehicle shall be in OFF mode. If doors are in unlocked condition, Tail gate can be unlocked via Tail- gate handle switch independent of smart key. Avoid keeping smart key inside the boot space area while closing Tailgate.  Emergency Tailgate Opening In case of electrical malfunction, you can unlock the tailgate from inside as per pro- cedure given below: 1. Fold the rear seat to access the tail- gate opening knob. 2. Open the knob cover. 3. Pull out

1. Fold the rear seat to access the tail- gate opening knob. 2. Open the knob cover. 3. Pull out the knob to open the tailgate. OPENING AND CLOSING 85  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER DIGITAL DISPLAY (7” Inch)(If equipped) EV Mode Gauge Drive Mode OAT SOC Gauge Clock Speedometer A SW 23.5 Fork Right BV room nagar tod ODO Meter Gear Indicator Regeneration Mode Drive Information Center DTE Regeneration Level Selection 86  Gauge Name The Speedometer Indicates the actual INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Note/warning At every key IN and Ignition ON, the speedometer Bar moves to MAX and return to ‘0’ position. This is welcome strategy and self-check feature Speedometer | chicle speed in km/h + Invehicle running condition if the Speedometer is not showing the Vehicle speed, then take the vehicle to TATA authorized service center. Odometer Indicates distance traveled |* The odometer reading does not return to 0 when maximum Odometer by vehicle. value is reached, the display will freeze to maximum value. SOC (State of

Odometer by vehicle. value is reached, the display will freeze to maximum value. SOC (State of Charge) gauge indicates |* When battery SOC goes below 5%, first Bar in gauge will SOC Gauge the battery state of charge to user in start blinking. percentage Do not drive the vehicle with low SOC. EV mode Gauge This function provides instanta- neous power consumption mode of vehicle during driving and displayed in the instrument cluster. During the IGN ON of the vehicle, EV mode gauge will starts sweep from REGEN mode to DRIVE mode and then back to the REGEN mode to indicate the welcome strategy behavior. When all functional modes are activated, then take the vehicle to TATA authorized service center. 87  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Gauge Name Information For DRIVE mode, LED BARs will be ON as per the power consume in ECO & SPORT drive by taking instantaneous power consumption input. For REGENERATION mode, LED BARs will be ON as per energy re- cuperation while driving by taking instantaneous power

mode, LED BARs will be ON as per energy re- cuperation while driving by taking instantaneous power consumption input. Note/warning Regeneration Level Se- lection This function provides Regenera- tion Level settings to user from Min- imum to Maximum in steps of Level 0, Level 1, Level 2and Level 3 of vehicle during driving and displayed in the instrument cluster. The “Maximum” Regen Level setting provides the maxi- mum amount of regenerative braking power & it recaptures the most energy and reduces wear & tear on the brakes. The “Minimum” Regen Level setting incorporates a re- duced regenerative braking force that recaptures less en- ergy but allows the vehicle to coast farther than in the “Maximum” Regen Level. 88  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER DRIVER INFORMATION SYSTEM (DIS) Driver Information System Image Description User can select Service Reminder Screen using controls on steering wheel to navigate & by pressing Set Button in Settings Screen. Service reminder is a feature to alert the user

& by pressing Set Button in Settings Screen. Service reminder is a feature to alert the user for service action. Illumination s When distance since last service meet the maximum distance criteria, Service reminder Unit S a service screen will get activated for the user to indicate the service of the vehicle has to be done along with the telltale indication. User can reset the Service Reminder Symbol by right/left & SET but- tons on the steering wheel. In the Setting menu if there is no user input for 10 seconds the Service Reminder... This displays outside ambient temperature in units of °C with the reso: Outside Ambient lution of 1°C. Temperature Note: If display shows ‘- - ‘, take your car to TATA MOTORS Author- ized Service Centre. This feature monitors the Door Input and warns Driver if any Door is Door Ajar Open (if equipped) NOTE: If any other door is open roof lamp will be ‘ON’ provided that roof lamp switch is in ON position. 89  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Driver Informati System

provided that roof lamp switch is in ON position. 89  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Driver Informati System Image Current gear engaged by the transmission shall be displayed on DIS. Note: /f is displayed, it means ‘Fault’ condition. In such case, take vehicle to authorized TATA MOTORS Authorized service Centre. Current Gear Indication The seatbelt warning indicator remains ON for 4 seconds, when igni- tion is turned ON. The warning lamp remains ON till all occupied seats belts are buckled. If seatbelt remains unbuckled and vehicle speed goes beyond 15 kmph, then final audio warning will go more than 90 seconds Note: Once the seatbelts are fastened, the buzzer and warning lamp turns OFF. Seatbelt reminder remains OFF when reverse gear is engaged. Seat Belt Reminder “KEY BATT LOW” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when UID key battery is low. Key batt low (for PEPS ) Key out of range (for PEPS ) KEY OUT OF RANGE” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when UID key is not inside the vehicle. 90

KEY OUT OF RANGE” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when UID key is not inside the vehicle. 90  iver Information System Image Press Brake INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Description “PRESS BRAKE” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when BRAKE is not pressed to crank the vehicle. Service due “SERVICE DUE” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when service is overdue. Low brake fluid “LOW BRAKE FLUID” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when brake fluid is low. Over speed “OVER SPEED” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when display speed crosses 120 Km/Hr. Take a break “TAKE A BREAK” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when driver drives continuously for prolonged duration. Note: “TAKE A BREAK” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds again with specific duration if vehicle is not stopped and continuously driven. Unable to resume “UNABLE TO RESUME?” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when (if equipped) cruise function is unable to resume/activate. Cruise off “CRUISE OFF” text warning

(if equipped) cruise function is unable to resume/activate. Cruise off “CRUISE OFF” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when cruise (if equipped) function is deactivated. Cruise cancelled “CRUISE CANCELLED” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when (if equipped) cruise function is cancelled by user. Cruise resume (if equipped) “CRUISE RESUME” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when cruise function is resume. Cruise Override (if equipped) “CRUISE OVERRIDE” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when cruise function is override by user. 91  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Driver Information Happy Birthday (if equipped) System Image “HAPPY BIRTHDAY” text message comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds on owner's birthday. HDC Active (if equipped) “HDC ACTIVE” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when hill de- scent control function is active. HDC deactivate (if equipped) “HDC DEACTIVE” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when hill descent control function is deactivated. TPMS ERROR VISIT SERV CENT - Text

for 4 seconds when hill descent control function is deactivated. TPMS ERROR VISIT SERV CENT - Text Warning TPMS ERROR VISIT SERV CENT” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when iTPMS system malfunction Don’t Press Brake and Accelerator Together - Text Warning “DONT PRESS BRAKE AND ACC TOGETHER’ text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when user press the brake and accelerator simultaneously. TURN IGN OFF AND ON AGAIN - Text Warn- ing (if equipped) “TURN IGN OFF AND ON AGAIN” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 sec- onds when Ignition failure warning is present. STAY IN D FOR 20 S - Text Warning (if equipped) “STAY IN D FOR 20 S” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds to in- form user to stay vehicle in Drive mode for 20sec 92  iver Information Charger not connected INSTRUMENT CLUSTER This function displays the Charger Connected status information. When charger is not connected. When Charger is connected and not charging in IGN ON. Charger Connected When Charger is connected and charging ON in

and not charging in IGN ON. Charger Connected When Charger is connected and charging ON in IGN ON. When charger is connected in IGN OFF. 93  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Driver Informati System Image This indicate the energy flow from the battery to the front wheels via electric motor or the flow to battery from high voltage components in case of regenerative braking. Animation = Forward (Battery to Motor) Energy Flow Animation and Energy Histogram Animation = Reverse (Motor to Battery) The IVI data including media Meta data, Navigation data is shared from HU via CAN interface to be projected on IC. IMI Info on IC IVI Info will not be displayed, if Settings screen is requested. FM Source Station Name Average Energy Displays “Average Energy consumption” for trip A or B since it was Economy for reset Trip A and Trip B Resolution: 0.1 Wh/Km 94  System Image INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Description Average Energy Consumption shall Reset to 0 when respective Trip meter is reset. Average Energy Economy shall

Consumption shall Reset to 0 when respective Trip meter is reset. Average Energy Economy shall be displayed as ‘—.-‘for initial 0.5 km of respective trip. Once 0.5 km distance is covered, Average Energy Economy shall be displayed. Even after 0.5 km distance covered for particular trip, Average Energy economy is displayed as ‘—-‘take vehicle to TATA MOTORS Author- ized Service Centre. Note: + AEE value is estimate of Energy economy. It may vary significantly based upon driving conditions, driving habits and condition of vehi- cle. + Average Energy Consumption shall get Reset to 0 when Battery is removed and refitted. Distance To Empty DTE indicates approximate distance (km) that the vehicle can travel with current battery charge. DTE shall be indicated both in IGN ON & IGN OFF conditions. In IGN OFF when charger is connected and charging is happening then DTE value will display as long as screen is active in the cluster. ‘RECHARGE’ shall be displayed which indicates that it’s the time

screen is active in the cluster. ‘RECHARGE’ shall be displayed which indicates that it’s the time to take your vehicle to the nearest charging station and the distance that a vehicle can travel with current charge is 20 Kms. 95  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Driver Informati Infotainment Informa- tion On Instrument Cluster Display Unit System Image The instrument cluster will display information like media, navigation and FM. Settings Screen f User can enter into setting screen by pressing select button while being in setting screen. Following screen gets displayed into setting screen: Illumination Setting User can select Illumination Setting by Scroll down & pressing Set Button in Setting Screen provided park lamp ON. User can increase the illumination from (20% to 100%) in 5 steps by using UP & SET Button. User can decrease the illumination from (100% to 20%) in 5 steps by using DOWN & SET Button. Service Reminder Reset User can select Service Reminder Screen by Scroll down & pressing Set

Service Reminder Reset User can select Service Reminder Screen by Scroll down & pressing Set Button in Setting Screen. User can reset (Yes / Cancel) the Service Reminder by UP / DOWN & SET Buttons. 96  System Image Reset Service Reminder? Button Cancel INSTRUMENT CLUSTER In the Setting menu if there is no user input for 10 secs the previous screen shall be displayed. Clock Instrument Cluster equipped with digital clock which indicates current time in 12 / 24 hours mode. State of Charge SoC (State of Charge) gauge indicates the battery state of charge to user in percentage. 97  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Driver Information System Image Description Press Brake Pedal Press Brake Pedal to Start Engine Before you start the vehicle, press the brake pedal and then press the start/stop button. 98  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Driver Information System (DIS) Setting Operate the Up & down and Set Switch on steering wheel to see the Trip Info, Drive Assist, Vehicle Info, Notification, Navigation, Layout and

wheel to see the Trip Info, Drive Assist, Vehicle Info, Notification, Navigation, Layout and Settings Window. Operate the Set Switch on steering wheel to reset TRIP A, AEE A, Average Speed A, Trip Time A (When TRIP A is displayed) and reset TRIP B, AFE B, Average Speed B and Trip Time B (When TRIP B is displayed). 99  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Trip Information -—— 1.1. TripA 300.0 9999.9 -—— 1.2. TripB 00:00 0.0 6 ——* 1.3. Go To Main Menu Press to go to main menu 100  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Drive Assist 2.1. Driver Attention Assist 2.2. Go To Main Menu to go to main menu 101  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Vehicle Information >——~ 3.1. G-Force Meter [> _ 3.2. Date and Time eS 3 Dec 2021 ——+* 3.3. Go To Main Menu Qs Vehicle Info to go to main menu 102  Energy Analytics INSTRUMENT CLUSTER 4.1. Histogram Histogram Energy Analytics 4.2. Go To Main Menu to go to main menu 103  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Notification iQ Notifications 0) 104 -—— 5.1. Service Reminder Service due in 760 km [—— 5.2. Notification ice Due in

0) 104 -—— 5.1. Service Reminder Service due in 760 km [—— 5.2. Notification ice Due in 345Kms or Notification 2 Notification 3 ——+ 5.3. Go To Main Menu to go to main menu  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Layout 6.1. Go To Main Menu Minimal View ——+ 6.2. Go To Main Menu to go to main menu 105  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Setting Screen -— 7.1. Illumination [—*_7.4. Favourite Menu [+ 7.5. Factory Reset XO} L_+ 7.3. Clock Reset TPMS? Yes Cancel 106  DIGITAL DISPLAY (10.25” Inch ) INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Power Meter Trip Info Gear Indication DTE Clock 100 7 km/h Distance 0D9 123456 km HV Battery Gauge AEE ODO Meter Battery Indicator Drive Mode —— Warning & Indicator Speedometer OAT Energy Regeneration Gauge 107  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Gauge Speedometer Information The Speedometer Indicates the actual vehicle speed in km/h Note/Warning At every key IN and Ignition ON, the speedome- ter Bar moves to MAX and return to ‘0’ position. This is welcome strategy and self-check feature Power Meter Power Meter indicates energy

position. This is welcome strategy and self-check feature Power Meter Power Meter indicates energy consumption rate when the vehicle is powered by electric force, when it is recovering energy and when regenera- tion is limited during accelerating or maintaining speed. At every key in and Ignition ON, tachometer moves to MAX and returns to ‘0’ position. This is a welcome strategy and a self-check fea- ture. Distance to empty may differ from the actual driving distance based on driving conditions, driving style and condition of vehicle. Odometer Odometer Indicates distance traveled by vehicle. The odometer reading does not return to 0 when maximum value is reached, the display will freeze to maximum value. SOC Gauge The SOC gauge displays charging status of HV battery. When the ignition switch is in “ON” position, SOC gauge gives an indication of the amount of battery is charged and expected charging time. The range is from 0 to 100 % (100 % indi- cates battery is fully charged). When

charging time. The range is from 0 to 100 % (100 % indi- cates battery is fully charged). When the battery is low or near to empty posi- tion, low battery warning telltale turns Red. Pop up message is displayed to connect the charger to the vehicle for charging. 108  Gauge HV Battery Gauge Information The HV Battery Gauge displays Charging Com- pleted as per Set Limit INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Note/Warning Bar Graph is used for display SOC %. The Gauge Indication shall change the Colour based on the SOC available 0-10% - Red Solid ON 11-100% - Blue; (All the values are config- urable) When the cluster detects Low battery level, It blinks last battery bar with 1Hz frequency and charge battery is symbol is continue ON state. When there is 1 — 2 bars left, the vehicle speed is limited and then eventually vehicle will turn OFF. Charge the vehicle If there is any fault in the system, battery low warning symbol shall blink. Take your vehicle to the nearest TATA MOTORS authorized service station.

symbol shall blink. Take your vehicle to the nearest TATA MOTORS authorized service station. When driving on highways, make sure the bat- tery is charged enough Average Energy Economy Display shows the Average Energy of consump- tion” at regular time interval in bar graph. Maintain AEE bar graph above 15 km/I to achieve battery economy Battery indicator The battery shows the Battery percentage at differ- ent level When low battery warning indicator on and pop up message is displayed, charge the vehicle. 109  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Gauge Energy Regeneration Gauge Information Energy recuperation simply means recovering the energy from braking. Regenerative Braking Sys- tem saves energy generated while slowing down or braking of the car. This energy is stored back in the battery for later use. There are 3 levels at the which energy recovery is done. Note/Warning If there is any fault in the system, battery low warning symbol shall blink. Take your vehicle to the nearest TATA MOTORS

in the system, battery low warning symbol shall blink. Take your vehicle to the nearest TATA MOTORS authorized service station. Trip Meter info Trip Meter A Trip A Indicates distance traveled by vehicle since last reset within the range of 0 km to 9999.9 km with the resolution of 0.1 km. Trip Meter B Trip B Indicates distance traveled by vehicle since last reset within the range of 0 km to 9999.9 km with the resolution of 0.1 km. Trip A can be RESET to 0 by pressing Set switch when display is ina TRIP A mode. Trip B can be RESET to 0 by pressing Set switch when display is ina TRIP B mode. 110  DRIVER INFORMATION SYSTEM (DIS) Driver Information System Image 11:30pm P Vehicle Info Service Reminder Service reminder Service due in 26 Days and 760 km INSTRUMENT CLUSTER This indicates how many days/kilometres are left until serv- ice is due. If service is overdue, it will display “O” km or “O” days and a spanner symbol will blink every time ignition is ON for a few seconds. Never reset the

days and a spanner symbol will blink every time ignition is ON for a few seconds. Never reset the display between service intervals as it may give incorrect readings. The infor- mation is retained in the service interval display even after the vehicle battery is disconnected. NOTE: 1. This option is for indicative purpose only. Keep track of your odometer reading and follow the maintenance schedule. 2. Spanner symbol will be continuously “ON” when service is overdue. Outside Ambient Temperature Displays outside ambient temperature in °C. NOTE: The temperature sensor is in the front bumper of the vehicle, therefore the temperature reading can be af- fected by heat reflection from the road surface. This can cause an incorrect temperature reading when speed is under low speeds or when stopped. If display shows ‘- - ‘, take your car to TATA MOTORS Au- thorized Service Centre. 111  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Driver Information Door Ajar (if equipped) System Image Description This feature monitors

CLUSTER Driver Information Door Ajar (if equipped) System Image Description This feature monitors the Door Input and warns Driver if any Door is Open NOTE: If any other door is open roof lamp will be ‘ON’ pro- vided that roof lamp switch is in ON position. Current Gear Indication 11:30em DD Trip Info Trip A Current gear engaged by the transmission shall be dis- played on DIS. Note: /f is displayed, it means ‘Fault’ condition. In such case, take vehicle to authorized TATA MOTORS Authorized service Centre. Seat Belt Reminder The seatbelt warning indicator remains ON for 4 seconds, when ignition is turned ON. The warning lamp remains ON till all occupied seats belts are buckled. If seatbelt remains unbuckled and vehicle speed goes be- yond 15 kmph, then final audio warning will go more than 90 seconds Note: Once the seatbelts are fastened, the buzzer and warning lamp turns OFF. Seatbelt reminder remains OFF when re- verse gear is engaged. 112  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER iver Information System

remains OFF when re- verse gear is engaged. 112  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER iver Information System Image “SERVICE DUE” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds Service due . when service is overdue. . ees “LOW BRAKE FLUID” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 sec- Low brake fluid LOW BRAKE FLUT onds when brake fluid is low. 9 “OVER SPEED” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds Over speed when display speed crosses 120 Km/Hr. “TAKE A BREAK” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when driver drives continuously for prolonged duration. Note: “TAKE A BREAK” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 sec- onds again with specific duration if vehicle is not stopped and continuously driven. Take a break Cruise cancelled (if equipped) “CRUISE CANCELLED” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 sec- onds when cruise function is cancelled by user. Cruise resume (if equipped) “CRUISE RESUME” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when cruise function is resume. Cruise Override (if equipped) “CRUISE OVERRIDE” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4

function is resume. Cruise Override (if equipped) “CRUISE OVERRIDE” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 sec- onds when cruise function is override by user. 113  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Driver Information Happy Birthday (if equipped) System Image Description “HAPPY BIRTHDAY” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds on owner's birthday. HDC Active (if equipped) “HDC ACTIVE” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when hill descent control function is active. HDC deactivate (if equipped) “HDC DEACTIVE” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when hill descent control function is deactivated. TPMS ERROR VISIT SERV CENT - Text Warning TPMS ERROR VISIT SERV CENT” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when iTPMS system malfunction Tyre Pressure Monitor- ing System (if equipped) Vehicle Info Tire Information Tyre pressure information for individual tyre with pressure values will be displayed with “psi” unit on DIS if tyre pres- sure is within defined range. Average Energy Economy for Trip A and Trip B Displays

if tyre pres- sure is within defined range. Average Energy Economy for Trip A and Trip B Displays “Average Energy consumption” for trip A or B since it was reset Resolution: 0.1 Wh/Km Average Energy Consumption shall Reset to 0 when re- spective Trip meter is reset. 114  iver Information Average Energy Economy for Trip A and Trip B Trip Info Trip A 123.5 11:30 pm Trip Info Trip B 23.5 68.7 System Image D INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Average Energy Economy shall be displayed as ‘—.-‘for ini- tial 0.5 km of respective trip. Once 0.5 km distance is cov- ered, Average Economy shall be displayed. Even after 0.5 km distance covered for particular trip, Aver- age Energy economy is displayed as ‘—-‘take vehicle to TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre. Note: + AEE value is estimate of Energy economy. It may vary significantly based upon driving conditions, driving habits and condition of vehicle. + Average Energy Consumption shall get reset to 0 when Battery is removed and refitted. Distance To Empty

Energy Consumption shall get reset to 0 when Battery is removed and refitted. Distance To Empty 11:30 Ps Trip Info Trip A D DTE indicates approximate distance (km) that the vehicle can travel with current battery charge. DTE shall be indicated both in IGN ON & IGN OFF condi- tions. In IGN OFF when charger is connected and charging is happening then DTE value will display as long as screen is active in the cluster. 115  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Driver Information System Image Description ‘RECHARGE’ shall be displayed which indicates that it’s the time to take your vehicle to the nearest charging station and the distance that a vehicle can travel with current charge is 20 Kms. Infotainment Information On Instrument Cluster Display Unit The instrument cluster will display information like media, navigation and FM. Settings Screen 11:30 pm Settings illumination Units Dial View Secondary Area Info P User can enter into setting screen by pressing select button while being in setting screen.

Info P User can enter into setting screen by pressing select button while being in setting screen. Following screen gets displayed into setting screen: 116  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER iver Information System Image 11:30 p >) User can select Illumination Setting by Scroll down & press- ing Set Button in Setting Screen provided park lamp ON. Settings User can increase the illumination from (20% to 100%) in 5 steps by using UP & SET Button. User can decrease the illumination from (100% to 20%) in 5 steps by using DOWN & SET Button. Illumination Setting Illumination 11:30em Pp User can select Service Reminder Screen by Scroll down & pressing Set Button in Setting Screen. Vehicle Info User can reset (Yes / Cancel) the Service Reminder by UP / Service Reminder Reset Service Reminder DOWN & SET Buttons. Note: eset chi In the Setting menu if there is no user input for 10 secs the 26 Days and 760 km previous screen shall be displayed. 130m D Navigation Compass Feature shall be used for navigation and

screen shall be displayed. 130m D Navigation Compass Feature shall be used for navigation and orienta- tion that shows direction relative to the geographic cardinal directions Compass screen 117  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Driver Informati Charging Limits System Image Low Battery escription Set charging limit of the battery. The target charging level can be changed by 10%. Once the charging is completed as per set limit, the message is displayed Clock Instrument Cluster equipped with digital clock which indi- cates current time in 12 / 24 hours mode. 118  Driver Information System (DIS) Set- ting Cluster display screen can be controlled with the control button on the steering wheel. Only when the ignition switch is turned to ON can the instrument cluster be controlled. 1. Option Switch Button - It is used to switch between different display screens 2. Up/Down Selection Button - Pull it up or down to make selection or adjust- ment 3. Confirm Button (Ok) - It is used to con- firm the setup or

to make selection or adjust- ment 3. Confirm Button (Ok) - It is used to con- firm the setup or to clear the trip mileage or the average battery con- sumption 4. View Button-Press View to see differ- ent dial view of the instrument cluster. 5. Operate the Res / Can Switch on Steering Wheel to Reset TRIP A & AEC A (When TRIP Ais displayed) and Reset TRIP B & AEC B (When TRIP B is displayed). INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Setting Screen User can enter setting screen by pressing select button while being in setting screen. Increase the illumination from (20% to 100%) in 5 steps by using UP & SET But- ton. Decrease the illumination from (100% to 20%) in 5 steps by using DOWN & SET. Display Illumination Setting Select Illumination Setting & press Ok But- ton on the Steering wheel provided park lamp ON. 119  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Clock Setting 3. Digital Multiple Dial View Setting 1. Dial 1 view Settings Screen 120  WARNING and INDICATOR Warning Lamps Service Indicator Color Amber / Red Indicator

Screen 120  WARNING and INDICATOR Warning Lamps Service Indicator Color Amber / Red Indicator INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Remarks In case of Power Train Sensors (AC Charging Inlet Temperature Sensor, AC Lin- ear Pressure Sensor etc.) & Actuators (Fan, Pump, Regen Switch, Eco / Sport Switch etc.) failure then this Amber indicator will glow. When there is high sever- ity then Red indicator will glow. Please take your vehicle to nearest TATA author- ized EV service center at the earliest. Immobilizer (if equipped) Red 1. This lamp comes on when the system disables vehicle start if the original key is not used. Lamp blinks: Vehicle is in immobilized condition when key is not inserted. Lamp ON: Problem with key/system. Contact a TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre. 4. Lamp OFF: Normal condition (Authenticated user) and vehicle will start. Turn Signal Green Indicates direction indicated by the turn signal. Blinks along with buzzer while operating left/right turn indicator only when igni- tion is

signal. Blinks along with buzzer while operating left/right turn indicator only when igni- tion is switched ‘ON’. The direction indicator arrow on Instrument Cluster flashes along with external indicator lights as selected. Both Tell tales shall blink simul- taneously when Hazard switch is pressed irrespective of Ignition ON and the Tick-Tock sound shall be given when any one or both the Tell tales are ON. 121  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER (if equipped) the driver. Lamp ON indicates cruise control feature is present and it is acti- Warn amps Color Indicator Remarks High Beam Blue This lamp comes on when the high beam headlamps are switched ‘ON’ or flashed. This symbol lights up when the ‘IGN’ is turned ‘ON’ and should go ‘OFF’ after the vehicle starts. . NOTE: Lv Battery charging Red [x] If it remains ‘ON’ while the vehicle is running, it indicates that the battery is not getting charged. Switch off all unnecessary electrical equipment and get the problem attended at TATA authorized Service

off all unnecessary electrical equipment and get the problem attended at TATA authorized Service center. This lamp comes on when ignition is switched ‘ON’ and goes ‘OFF’ in approx. 4 Airbag status Red seconds. If it continuously remains on or blinks then contact the TATA MOTORS Authorized service Centre immediately. Illuminates momentarily when ignition is switched ‘ON’. Once parking brake is Park Brake / Brake re-leased, it turns ‘OFF’. If it remains ‘ON’, it indicates. Fluid Low / EBD Red 1. Brake fluid level is low. malfunction 2. Park brake is applied & turns ‘OFF’ when it is released. 3. ABS/EBD system has a fault. Cruise Control This symbol lights up when the ‘IGN’ is turned ‘ON’ and shall go ‘OFF’ after 4 lamp Green sec. The Cruise Control is used to indicate the status of cruise control system to vated. 122  Warni EPAS Amber Tate [Ceri Ke) INSTRUMENT CLUSTER emarks Illuminates momentarily when ignition is switched ‘ON’. Illuminates when there is a fault in the EPAS. Contact

momentarily when ignition is switched ‘ON’. Illuminates when there is a fault in the EPAS. Contact the TATA MOTORS Au- thorized Service Centre immediately. Driver Seat Belt In- dicator Red Seat belt warning indicator comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds, when ignition is turned ‘ON’ irrespective of seat belt buckle status. If seat belt is not fastened then Telltale will be ON as initial warning with No audio warning i.e. chime. If seat belt remains unbuckled & vehicle speed goes above 15 kmph, Final Warning will start with audio chime for 93 seconds contin- uously. NOTE: * Once the seat belt is fastened, the buzzer & warning indicator will go ‘OFF’. * Seat belt indicator & audio alarm remains OFF when reverse gear is engaged. AVH Indicator (If equipped ) Amber AVH Indicator turns ‘ON’ for 4 seconds, when ignition is turned ‘ON’ irrespective of input state. This feature monitors AVH function in ESP system and warns the driver in case of AVH function malfunction. ABS Amber Illuminates when ignition

and warns the driver in case of AVH function malfunction. ABS Amber Illuminates when ignition is switched ‘ON’ and goes ‘OFF’ in 3 seconds. Illumi- nates continuously if there is any malfunction in ABS. Normal braking system will be operational without assistance of ABS. Contact a TATA MOTORS Autho- rised Service Centre immediately. Key Not Detected (if equipped) Amber This lamp comes on when the Valid Smart key is not detected inside the vehicle. 123  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Warning Lamps Color Indicator Remarks Press Brake Pedal to Start This lamp comes on with IGN ON till user presses the Brake pedal to start . : Amber : vehicle (if the vehicle. equipped) Daytime running lamps Green This lamp comes on when the Daytime Running lamp is ‘ON’. DRL (if equipped) Door Ajar lamp (if White / All four door and Tail gate are indicated independently when the respective door equipped) Red or tail gate is open. Illuminates momentarily when ignition is switched ‘ON’. ECO Green 3@@m | When ECO lamp is

is open. Illuminates momentarily when ignition is switched ‘ON’. ECO Green 3@@m | When ECO lamp is ON, it indicates the car is in ‘Economy’ drive mode. Illuminates momentarily when ignition is switched ‘ON’. CITY Blue ali (@ams | \f CITY lamp is ON, it indicates ‘City’ drive mode, which is default mode. SPORT Amber SPORTS This symbol comes ON when SPORT driving mode is activated. 124  imps Speed limit warning indicator Color Amber Indicator INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Remarks When the vehicle speed crosses 80 kmph, then speed limit warning indicator turns ‘ON’ along with an audio chime for every two minutes (audible warning). When the vehicle speed is reduced below 75 kmph, then the speed limit warn- ing indicator and the audio warning will turn off. If vehicle speed crosses 120 kmph, the speed limit warning indicator flashes along with an audio warning for every two sec one beep (audible warning) until the vehicle speed is above 120 kmph. When the vehicle speed is reduced below 115 kmph, then

until the vehicle speed is above 120 kmph. When the vehicle speed is reduced below 115 kmph, then speed limit warning indicator turns ‘ON’ along with an audio chime for every two minutes one beep (audible warning) TPMS Amber 1. This symbol comes ON and blink for 4 second if Tyre Pressure is LOW/HIGH, Tyre temperature is HIGH, Tyre air pressure leakage. After 4 second symbol will continuously ON till warning is present. 2. This symbol comes on and blink for 20 second if TPMS system has fault and TPMS Sensor fault / missing. After 20 second symbol will continuously ON till fault is present, Please take your vehicle to nearest TATA authorized service Centre at the earliest. HDC Warning lamp (if equipped) Amber Illuminates if Hill Decent Control System is activated. If continuously ON then HDC system is at fault condition, Please take your vehicle to nearest TATA au- thorized service Centre at the earliest. HDC ON (if equipped) Green 4 we b Illuminates momentarily when ignition is

Centre at the earliest. HDC ON (if equipped) Green 4 we b Illuminates momentarily when ignition is switched ‘ON’. This symbol comes on when the HDC function is activated in the vehicle. 125  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Warn amps Color Indicator Remarks Illuminates momentarily when ignition is switched ‘ON’. HHC warning lamp Amber If continuously on then HHC, system is in fault condition. Please take your vehi- (if equipped) cle to TATA authorized service Centre at the earliest. a When there is high severity then Red indicator will glow. Please take your vehi- HV Critical Alert Red UN cle to nearest TATA authorized EV service center at the earliest. Park Lamp Indica- . ae . tor Green nye Park Lamp Indicators used to display/Indicate the Position Lamp to Driver. Charaing Fail Indi- This symbol is displayed when the vehicle is not getting charged even if the cater 9 Red charger is connected. Contact the TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre to get the charging fail issue resolved Charger

Contact the TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre to get the charging fail issue resolved Charger Connected Blue 6 tow symbol lights up as soon as the charger is connected for charging the bat- Charging Indicator Green #| This symbol is displayed when your vehicle is getting charged. 126  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER imps Color Indicator Remarks This symbol lights up when the temperature of the motor is higher, and motor Motor High Tem- Red becomes hot. perature Park your vehicle safely and wait for the temperature to become normal. If the problem persists, contact the TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre This symbol lights up when the temperature of the battery is higher, and battery Battery High Tem- Red becomes hot. perature Contact the TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre if this indicator is getting on frequently. This symbol indicates the vehicle gone into limited performance mode. This usu- Limp Home Mode Red ally happens when the battery reaches 10% threshold or if there is any minor

Limp Home Mode Red ally happens when the battery reaches 10% threshold or if there is any minor fault in power transmission or electrical components. High Voltage (HV) This symbol lights up the voltage of the battery is too high and cause damage. Net 9 Red Park your vehicle safely and contact the TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre Drive Ready Green oa This symbol indicated that your vehicle is ready to drive -_—?> 127  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Warning Lamps Color Indicator Remarks Electronic Stability Illuminates momentarily when ignition is switched ‘ON’. Control (ESC) Amber If continuously ON then ESP system is at fault condition, Please take your vehi- (if equipped) cle to nearest TATA authorized service Centre at the earliest. 128  DISPLAY MESSAGES ON INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Warning Messages Warning / Information Title Fasten Seat Belt - Driver Warning Message Title Seat Belt Reminder INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Warning Message On Instrument Cluster Fasten Driver Seat Belt Speed Limit Warning

CLUSTER Warning Message On Instrument Cluster Fasten Driver Seat Belt Speed Limit Warning Speed Limit Warning Over Speeding Detected Slow Down Drive Control Shift Denied Drive Mode Warning Drive Control Shift Denied Hill Hold Control Failure Hill Hold Control Malfunction Detected Contact Service Center Hill Decent Control Failure Hill Decent Control Malfunction Detected Contact Service Center Charging Level Low State Charging Level Warning Charging Level Low Fasten seat belt front passenger Seat Belt Reminder Fasten Front passenger Seat Belt CO | N] O] Oo] A] wl] nm) = Transmission Failure Limp home Acti- vated Visit Service Center Transmission System Malfunction Detected Contact Service Center 129  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER AUDIO REMINDERS Feature Condition Reminder Key-in Reminder /audio Warn- If you forget the key inside the vehicle An audio warning will sound. Remove key to stop . when you leave the ignition in ‘OFF’ posi- . 1 ing . . the warning. tion and door is open No key is detected

leave the ignition in ‘OFF’ posi- . 1 ing . . the warning. tion and door is open No key is detected in the vehi- If the vehicle is in ACC ON/IGN ON and An audio warning will be sounded for nine sec- cle onds to alert that the key is not in the vehicle. the customer takes the smart key out of . . a : 2 . Note: In this condition customer needs to bring the the vehicle and closes the last door oe : smart key inside the vehicle . An audio warning will be started. Do not forget to Parking Lamp ‘ON’ Reminder If you forget to turn OFF the park lights turn OFF your park lights as it may drain the vehi- 3 and driver door is open , cle’s battery. . . . ._ | Tell tale will turn ‘ON’ and buzzer will provide audio . inp . lf Park Brake is applied and vehicle is . . : 4 Parking brake ‘ON’ reminder driven warning continuously. Disengage the park brake to stop audio warning. 5 Reverse Gear reminder If reverse gear is engaged The buzzer sound will alert you for 1 second. If seatbelt is not fastened

reverse gear is engaged The buzzer sound will alert you for 1 second. If seatbelt is not fastened and vehicle goes | Then final audio warning will go on for more than Driver Seat Belt reminder above 15 kmph 90 seconds. Seat belt tell-tale light will remain 6 continuously ON when audio alarm is active. If front passenger has not fastened seat-| Seat belt tell-tale light will remain continuously ON 7 Front passenger Seat Belt re-|belt and if vehicle speed goes above 15)/when audio alarm is active. minder kmph, then final audio warning will go on| Note: Fasten the seatbelt to stop audio warning. for more than 90 seconds. 130  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Se Feature Con Reminder No . | When user switches drive mode from city |Sound warning for 1 second will be given to alert Drive mode chime F : : 8 to eco or city to sport (if equipped) user. Electronic Steering Column This feature informs the driver to rotate steering 9 Lock (ESCL) chime - wheel when ESCL gets engaged accidentally. ‘If, . 1)

to rotate steering 9 Lock (ESCL) chime - wheel when ESCL gets engaged accidentally. ‘If, . 1) Audible warning for 4 second will be given to Tyre Pressure is low Tyre Pressure is high alert the user ro y Non 2) Audible warning for 20 second will be given to Tyre Pressure Monitoring Sys-| Tyre temperature is high alert the user " tem it air pressure leakage Note: TPMS is not applicable for spare wheel. TPMS system has fault TPMS Sensor fault or missing 12 |PEPS Key not detected chime |If PEPS key is not detected in the vehicle | Sound warning will be given to alert User 131  STARTING AND DRIVING DRIVING TIPS Driving Through Water * Check wiper blades, lights and brakes for proper functioning and condition. * Check the tyre treads depth, the con- dition of the tread and tyre. * Avoid harsh braking and sharp turns. It may cause loss of control and lead to a skid. * For slowing down, shift the mono sta- ble shifter at down gear position and brake gently. * Keep lights ‘ON’ if visibility is

mono sta- ble shifter at down gear position and brake gently. * Keep lights ‘ON’ if visibility is poor Driving on A Rainy Day * Check wiper blades, lights and brakes for proper functioning and condition. * Check the tyre treads depth, the con- dition of the tread and tyre. * Avoid harsh braking and sharp turns. It may cause loss of control and lead to a skid. * For slowing down, shift the mono sta- ble shifter at down gear position and brake gently. 132 * Keep lights ‘ON’ if visibility is poor Driving on Wet Roads On wet road or during light showers, “Aquaplaning” can occur. “Aquaplaning” is the loss of direct contact between the road surface and the vehicle’s tyres due to a water film forming between them. Steering or braking the vehicle can be very difficult, and loss of control can occur. There is no hard and fast rule about aqua- planing. The best advice is to slow down when the road is wet. @ NOTE If you have driven for a long time in heavy rain without braking, there may be a

is wet. @ NOTE If you have driven for a long time in heavy rain without braking, there may be a delayed reaction from the brakes when braking for the first time. You have to press the brake pedal more firmly. Maintain a greater distance from the ve- hicle in front Driving on Snowy Roads While driving on snow, it is advisable to use the snow chain on roads. Follow as- sembly and safety instruction provided by the snow chain manufacturers. Night Driving Ensure that all lights are working and windshield, window glasses are clean. Drive more slowly at night than in the daytime, as the visual range is re- stricted at night. Maintain a speed such that you can stop within illuminated distance of headlamps. Do not use the high beam unless in- evitable. It may dazzle the driver of the oncoming vehicle, thus causing an ac- cident. Use headlamp main/dip beam to alert other road users on turns/ cross roads etc. Use side indicators for lane change or turning Driving on Gradients Slow down- When

roads etc. Use side indicators for lane change or turning Driving on Gradients Slow down- When driving down a hill, ease off on the accelerator to slow down. Do not drive in neutral or turn the vehicle off. EV’s give best range between speeds of  40 — 60 kmpnh. Therefore they are ideal for city applications. Driving in this range along with following of other points here will add your mileage significantly. A driv- ing speed band of 60 to 80 kmph is rec- ommended on highway. At high speed, the range may result in significant drop in range. ZX WARNING On long and steep gradients you must reduce the load on the brakes by taking your foot off the accelerator pedal. This allows you to take advantage of regen- erative braking effect and helps avoid overheating of service brakes resulting in reduced braking efficiency. Driving on Highway Do not change the accelerator pedal in- puts rapidly. GO as smooth as possible. EV’s being instantaneous torque and power — there is very little lag in

GO as smooth as possible. EV’s being instantaneous torque and power — there is very little lag in translating the pedal input to vehicle response. Stopping distance progressively, in- creases with vehicle speed. Maintain a sufficient distance between your vehicle and the vehicle ahead. For long distance driving, perform safety checks before starting a trip and take rest at certain intervals to prevent fatigue. Driving In Heat And Cold Weather The heating and cooling on the car uses energy from the battery. Set temperatures to a comfortable 24° C - 26° C with Auto mode and Econ activated, and see the comfort as well as the range go up signifi- cantly A\ CAUTION Do not store the vehicle in temperatures below -25°C for more than seven days. If the outside temperature is -25°C or less, the Li-ion battery may freeze and it cannot be charged or provide power to run the vehicle. Move the vehicle to a warm location STARTING AND DRIVING ELECTRIC POWER ASSISTED STEERING (EPAS) Your vehicle is

to a warm location STARTING AND DRIVING ELECTRIC POWER ASSISTED STEERING (EPAS) Your vehicle is equipped with electric power assisted steering system. The EPAS system makes steering the vehicle easier with less effort. In EPAS system, the steering effort be- comes heavier as the vehicle speed in- creases and becomes lighter as the vehicle speed decreases for better control of the vehicle at different vehicle speeds. If the vehicle is ‘OFF’ or if the EPAS sys- tem becomes inoperative, the vehicle still can be steered with more steering effort. This EPAS system is available with the fol- lowing assist features 1. Speed sensitive assist contro! 2. Active return control 133  STARTING AND DRIVING * Aclick noise may be heard from the EPAS relay after the ignition switch is turned ON or OFF position. + The steering wheel may not unlock normally in some cases when igni- tion key turned ‘ON’ or ISS button pressed. If this happens, turn the steering wheel to the right or left slightly to unlock

button pressed. If this happens, turn the steering wheel to the right or left slightly to unlock the steering wheel while turning the ignition key or pressing ISS button. * Contact the nearest TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre if in case of the above scenarios. AX WARNING Below are the symptoms of the system malfunction. Then, take your vehicle to the nearest TATA MOTORS service center and have the EPAS system checked as soon as possible. * vehicle noise may be heard when the vehicle is driven at low speeds. 134 If the EPAS system does not oper- ate normally, the warning light will illuminate on the instrument cluster. The steering wheel rotation may become difficult to control or operate. The EPAS warning light does not il- luminate. BEFORE YOU START EV Make sure that the area around the ve- hicle is clear. Do a check of the fluid levels - coolant, brake fluid, and windshield washer fluid as frequently as possible. Make sure that all windows and lights are clean. Examine the

fluid as frequently as possible. Make sure that all windows and lights are clean. Examine the tyres for their appear- ance, inflation pressure and condition. Make sure that all doors are closed. Position the seat and adjust the head- rests. Adjust the inside and outside mirrors. Fasten seat belts and ask all passen- gers to do likewise. Do a check of the operation of the warning lights when the power switch is pushed to the ON position. For ad- ditional information, refer to “Warning lamps and audible reminders” in the “Dashboard and Features” section of this manual  Procedure to Start EV 1. With the smart key sit in the driver’s seat (if equipped)/Engage the key in the lock set. Fasten the seat belt before you start the vehicle. Turn off all electrical devices. Make sure to engage the parking brake for your safety. Make sure the accelerator and brake pedal have clearance with your right foot. Make sure to press and hold the brake pedal. Press and hold the brake while pressing the

foot. Make sure to press and hold the brake pedal. Press and hold the brake while pressing the start/stop button or turn- ing the key to on position. The vehicle will get ON in ‘P’ mode only and it will be automatically se- lected. When ‘Ready’ message appears, you can drive the vehicle. Else, you cannot drive the vehicle. Start the vehicle again. Shift using monostable shifter to the desired position (D/R). APB will be still engaged. 10. Release the parking brake and slowly release the brake pedal. See if the ve- hicle slowly moves forward, then press the accelerator pedal. pr If the APB is disengaged manually after selecting required mode (D/R), release the brake pedal slowly to move the vehicle forward with creep activated condition. Further Acceler- ator pedal input to be given for achieving required speed. If start/stop button is pressed with- out brake pedal in pressed condi STARTING AND DRIVING tion, first press will bring the vehicle to Accessories On condition. Sec- ond press

AND DRIVING tion, first press will bring the vehicle to Accessories On condition. Sec- ond press will bring the vehicle to Ig- nition ON condition. Third press will switch of the vehicle. Here brake pedal is not pressed down. For cranking of vehicle, Brake pedal need to be pressed. 135  STARTING AND DRIVING Procedure to Stop EV 1. Hold down the brake pedal while the vehicle is parked. 2. While pressing the brake pedal, shift to P mode using monostable shifter to engage the parking brake. 3. Press the start/stop button or turn the key to OFF position to stop the vehicle. NOTE The vehicle must always be put in ‘N’ when you stop the vehicle before en- gaging the park brake. 136 When the ‘Ready’ message is ON and if the gear shifter is in a position other than N (Neutral), the driver can accidently press the accelerator pedal, causing the vehicle to move unexpectedly. Range oF Your EV Your EV can drive as per given range in below table, when the high voltage battery is 100 per cent

Your EV can drive as per given range in below table, when the high voltage battery is 100 per cent charged. However, in cer- tain situations like driving at high speed or when the air conditioner/heater is ON, the distance to empty can reduce significantly, as the high voltage battery consumes more electricity. Battery Va is Ri State 100% 100% Option | 2 | Option II 325 km If the “—-” symbol is displayed, charge the vehicle immediately. After you charge your vehicle, the distance to empty reading may vary significantly depending on previous operating patterns. When previous driving patterns include high speed driving, result- ing in the driving battery using more elec- ricity than usual, the estimated distance io empty is reduced. When the high voltage battery uses a little electricity in ECO mode, the estimated dis- ance to empty increases. Distance to empty may depend on many factors such as the charge available in the high voltage battery, weather, temperature, durability of he

such as the charge available in the high voltage battery, weather, temperature, durability of he battery, geographical features, and driving style. Natural degradation may occur with the high voltage battery de- pending on the number of years the vehi- cle is used. This may reduce the distance io empty. Contact your nearest Tata Mo- ors authorised EV service centre to re- place the battery in that case.  Freeing A Frozen Door Lock To prevent a door lock from freezing, apply anti-icing agent through the key hole. Some examples of anti-icing agents are sodium chloride, potassium chloride, glyc- erol, and urea. If the lock becomes frozen, heat the key before inserting it into the key hole or use the remote keyless entry key fob. Handle the heated key with care to avoid burn injuries. Antifreeze In the winter when it is possible that the outside temperature will drop below 0°C, check the antifreeze to ensure proper win- ter protection. For additional information, refer to the Maintenance

to ensure proper win- ter protection. For additional information, refer to the Maintenance section of this manual. 12-volt Battery If the 12-volt battery is not fully charged during extremely cold weather conditions, the 12-volt battery fluid may freeze and damage the 12-volt battery. To maintain maximum efficiency, the 12-volt battery should be checked regularly. TIPS TO GET MAXIMUM RANGE WHILE DRIVING EV ¢ If safe to do so, modulate the acceler- ator pedal instead of using the brake pedal when gradually slowing down. Whenever the vehicle is moving and you are not pressing the accelerator pedal, regenerative braking slows down the vehicle and feeds surplus en- ergy back to the HV battery. + Limit the use of resources such as heating, and air conditioning. If you op- erate the air conditioner/heater for long duration, it will use too much electricity from HV battery. Turn OFF the heater and air conditioner if you do not need them. * Using the climate control system to heat the cabin

and air conditioner if you do not need them. * Using the climate control system to heat the cabin when the outside tem- perature is below 0°C uses more elec- tricity and affects vehicle range more than when using the heater when the temperature is above 0°C. * Press and hold the accelerator pedal to maintain speed and drive economi- cally. STARTING AND DRIVING Gradually press and release the accel- erator pedal when accelerating or de- celerating. Do not use unnecessary electrical components while driving. Do not load unnecessary items in the vehicle trunk. Any additional load in the car drains the battery. Do not add more accessories, do not keep dead weight in the car, and in general travel as light as possible. Do not mount parts on the exterior of the car as it might increase drag. Service schedule should be adhered to. Fluid levels should be maintained within tolerance limits. Both of these also helps in realizing the maximum range potential of an electric vehicle To optimize

of these also helps in realizing the maximum range potential of an electric vehicle To optimize driving range use drive/eco mode and maintain the rec- ommended tyre pressure. Drive in ECO mode * ECO mode helps reduce power consumption by reducing acceler- ation when compared to the same 137  STARTING AND DRIVING accelerator pedal position in the D (Drive) position. + Drive at a constant speed. Maintain cruising speeds with constant acceler- ator positions as much as possible. + Accelerate slowly and smoothly. Gen- tly press and release the accelerator pedal for acceleration and decelera- tion. + Vehicle range may be substantially re- duced in extremely cold conditions (for example, 0°C). + Release the accelerator pedal to slow down and do not apply the brakes when traffic and road conditions allow. Acceleration, Braking And Coasting Acceleration: This vehicle has a single speed automated gearbox. In accelerating mode, the torque supplied by the motor via the gearbox to the front

gearbox. In accelerating mode, the torque supplied by the motor via the gearbox to the front wheels is linear in nature. 138 Regenerative Braking This vehicle is equipped with a regenerative brake system. The primary pur- pose of the regen- erative brake system is to pro- vide some power to help recharge the Li-ion battery and extend driving range. Regenerative Braking The electric motor when decelerating and braking and transforms kinetic en- ergy to electrical energy in order to charge the high voltage battery. (Torque is applied in the opposite di- rection when decelerating to generate braking force and electricity). Asecondary benefit is an effect similar to “vehicle braking” seen in IC vehicle cars. Here, it depends on HV battery condition. In the Drive mode, when the accelera- tor is released, the regenerative brake system provides some deceleration and generates power for the high volt- age battery. Power is also generated when the brake pedal is applied. The calibration on the

volt- age battery. Power is also generated when the brake pedal is applied. The calibration on the regen is done in such a way that most people can ex- perience a “single pedal” drive at most imes, just lift your feet of the acceler- ator pedal to slow the vehicle down and gain range. Brake lightly if re- quired When you brake and take your foot off he accelerator pedal, more regenera- ive brake is applied than in the drive mode. However, during high-speed driving you may feel that regenerative brake provides less deceleration than he motor braking in an ordinary vehi- cle. This is normal. Less deceleration is provided by the regenerative brake system when the Li-ion battery is fully charged. Regen- erative brake is automatically reduced when the high voltage battery is fully charged to prevent it from overcharg- ing.  + Regenerative brake is also automati- cally reduced when the battery temper- ature is high/low to prevent battery damage. * The brake pedal should be used to slow or

temper- ature is high/low to prevent battery damage. * The brake pedal should be used to slow or stop the vehicle depending on traffic or road conditions. The vehicle brakes are not affected by regenera- tive brake system operation. * Regen Selection recommendation for better range : * Highway Use — Regen level 0 or 1 * City Use — Regen level 1 Or 3 based on Interior Climate Heating and Air con- ditioning system uses energy from the high voltage battery and this reduces range. For maximizing range during air-condition- ing on driving, it is recommended to set the air conditioning in Auto mode with Econ activated. Also the set temperature should be set between Interior Climate 24-26 deg C. Vehicle is equipped with Remote Air conditioning. You can remotely start Air Conditioning system. However, this also consumes energy from the high voltage battery and reduces the driving range. Driving Speeds At high speeds, greater than 80kmph, high amount of en- ergy is spent in pro- pelling the

Speeds At high speeds, greater than 80kmph, high amount of en- ergy is spent in pro- pelling the vehicle and hence reduces range. Similarly, idling for long duration also reduces range significantly Driving Style Driving Speeds Driving behavior has a significant influence on the driving range of an electric vehicle. Frequent and heavy accelerations will have a_ detrimental impact on car’s driv- ing range whereas travelling at a steady = Driving Style STARTING AND DRIVING pace, in between 40-80 km/hr will help an electric car to maximize range. Predictive driving with gradual acceleration reduces your reliance on hard braking. This helps conserve energy during acceleration and regenerate optimally during deceleration. However, brake should be applied as nec- essary to avoid hazards to occupants and surrounding. Tyre Pressure Maintaining specified Tyre pressure only en- sures comfortable ride comfort but also maxi- mizes range by mini- mizing rolling losses of the vehicle. It is advis-

ride comfort but also maxi- mizes range by mini- mizing rolling losses of the vehicle. It is advis- able to regularly mon- itor and maintain the tyre pressure within specified limits. Tyre Pressure 139  STARTING AND DRIVING Unauthorized Electrical Accessories Unauthorized aftermar- ket electrical acces- sories can _ potentially consume higher energy than factory fitted ones and may affect range di- Unauthorized Electrical rectly. They can also lead to functional complications and lower component life in the long run. It is recom- mended to fit only TATA Genuine Acces- sories at Authorized EV Service stations. Vehicle Maintenance Vehicle to be serviced regularly as per serv- ice schedule in au- thorized service stations. It helps in maximizing vehicle Vehicle performance and Maintenance component life. 140  Limp Home Strategy Soc InTervention STARTING AND DRIVING Zone IPC message and state Max speed Acceleration Grade ability Cabin cooling If the vehicle is in Sport mode, it =9R9 will

Max speed Acceleration Grade ability Cabin cooling If the vehicle is in Sport mode, it =9R9 will automatically shift to Drive 9 SoC <=25% mode which will be shown on clus- No change No change 29% No change ter Then SoC Gauge 1* Bar ON with single chime and low charge, Limp SoC <=10% Home Tell-tale will be ON & “ 50 kmph Reduced 18% No cooling RECHAGE’ will display SoC Gauge ‘st Bar will Blink SoC <=5% along with Low Charger tell-tale 50 kmph Reduced 18% No cooling with continuous chime Fault Intervention Sr.No. | Telltale Indication Max. Speed Acceleration Gradability Cabin Cooling HV critical ON + Single 1 Chime. Limp home Telltale 50 kmph Reduced 20% No change blinking 2 |Limp home Telitale blinking 160 kmph Reduced 20% No change + single chime 141  STARTING AND DRIVING Limp Home Condition of EV In situations when certain conditions in the vehicle are not met or when some fault arises in the vehicle, the vehicle control unit intervenes and puts the vehicle into Limp Home Mode. NEXON

in the vehicle, the vehicle control unit intervenes and puts the vehicle into Limp Home Mode. NEXON EV will give re- duced performance in these situations. These limp home interventions are defined on two levels which are provided in the table. @ NOTE There will be a single audio chime whenever the vehicle goes into Limp Home Intervention along with the IPC message. Sports mode cannot be se- lected if the vehicle SoC is below 25% or the vehicle is in limp home mode. If the vehicle is already in sports mode, it will automatically switch to drive mode. A message ‘Gear Shift not allowed’ will be displayed with an audio warning. When level 1 intervention takes place, the vehicle will not start in the next igni- tion cycle 142 Limp Home Mode Telltale Warnings HV Critical Fault Contact TATA MOTORS EV Service Sta- tion. Blinking HV Critical Fault Mobility is not al- Continu- lowed ously ON Contact TATA MOTORS EV Service Sta- tion. Vehicle has en- Continu-|tered in ously ON |Limp mode Home

TATA MOTORS EV Service Sta- tion. Vehicle has en- Continu-|tered in ously ON |Limp mode Home DRIVE AND GEAR MODES Drive Modes Drive mode selection switch ‘ECO ‘, ‘CITY’ and ‘SPORT’ drive modes are provided. These modes can be used to adjust motor torque characteristics and vehicle performance in line with desired requirement. Drive mode selection switch is provided on center console for activation.  e Performance Mode CITY |Increased Motor Torque and Power output for BALANCED alicity performance. ECO |Optimum Motor Torque and Power output for EFFICIENT performance. ECO SPORT | Driver can use maximum Szerang | torque from Motor. @ NOTE When vehicle is in ECO or SPORT mode, by pressing current mode switch again, mode will switch to CITY mode. Gear Modes STARTING AND DRIVING Neutral (N) The Vehicle is in Neutral gear position and ‘N’ will be indicated in Instrument Cluster. Drive Mode (D) Vehicle moves forward and ‘D’ will be indi- cated in Instrument Cluster. Park (P) Use Park (P)

(D) Vehicle moves forward and ‘D’ will be indi- cated in Instrument Cluster. Park (P) Use Park (P) position when starting the ve- hicle or parking the vehicle. Apply the parking brake whenever the vehicle is to be parked. Reverse (R) Vehicle moves rearward and ‘R’ will be in- dicated in Instrument Cluster. Reverse gear will engaged only when ve- hicle is stationary and brake Pedal pressed. 143  STARTING AND DRIVING Mono-stable Shifter Your vehicle is equipped with Mono stable shifter, where the shift lever re- turns to its stable position the moment it is released. It is provided with 2 UP positions and 2 DOWN positions: UP2-UP1-Stable- DOWN1-DOWN2. The user shall release the Gear shift lever after each gear shift, as any new Gear shift will be possible from stable position only. The user has to confirm the desired Gear position on display. Gear shift shall not be attempted from non-stable position by continuously holding the shift lever in the previous shift position. 144 Gear shift

position by continuously holding the shift lever in the previous shift position. 144 Gear shift Position Mono-stable shifter movement Unlock Button | Brake Pedal Press Press PtoR Stable position -> Up2 (2nd detent) Yes Yes DtoR Stable position -> Up2 (2nd detent) Yes Yes up2 PtoN Stable position -> Up1 (1st detent) Yes Yes NtoR Stable position -> Up1/Up2 Yes Yes uP4 DtoN Stable position -> Up1 (1st detent) Yes No PtoD Stable position -> Down1/Down2 Yes Yes Down 1 RtoN Stable position -> Down1(1st detent) No No RtoD Stable position -> Down2(2nd detent) Yes Yes Pown2 NtoD Stable position -> Down1/Down2 Yes Yes  OPERATING _ of WIPERS Combi-switch (RH Stalk) LIGHTS and a a 1. Left Turn Signal Move the lever fully upward. 2. Right Turn Signal Move the lever fully downward. @ NOTE When the turn is completed, the signal will cancel and the lever will return to its normal position. 3. High Beam Move the lever forward to select the high beam function. Pull the lever back to nor- mal for low

Move the lever forward to select the high beam function. Pull the lever back to nor- mal for low beam. 4. High Beam Flash (Spring Return) To flash the high beam, pull the lever to- wards you from the normal position. It will return to its normal position when you re- lease it. 5. Headlamp Rotary Switch OFF Position All lamps will remain ‘OFF.’ Parking Lamp Rotate stalk to turn ‘ON’ the Parking re 20 Rotate stalk to turn ‘ON’ the Low Beam function. STARTING AND DRIVING Auto Light r 2 The headlights will be automatically switched ON depending on ambient light conditions (while entering a tunnel or when it is twilight). Day Time Running Lamps (DRL) Ww Day time Running Lamps (DRL) are used to increase the visibility of the vehicle to other drivers during daytime. 1. To activate and deactivate DRL, keep the ignition switch is ‘ON’ position and switch the parking lamp ON-OFF twice within approx. three seconds. 2. Activation and Deactivation of DRL can be done by DRL soft switch, which is

three seconds. 2. Activation and Deactivation of DRL can be done by DRL soft switch, which is avail- able on the Head Unit Display. 6. Lane Change Signal To signal a lane change, move the lever slightly up or down to the point where the turn signal light begins to flash, but the lever does not latch. The turn signal will flash six times automatically. 145  STARTING AND DRIVING Head Lamp Leveling Rotary Switch Combi-switch (LH Stalk) of Inner rotary switch on right hand stalk is provided for head lamp leveling. With the inner rotary switch, Head lamp leveling can be done with head lamp in Low Beam and in ‘ON’ position. Select correct posi- ion before start of trip, when the vehicle is stationary. Depending on the number of passengers and luggage in the vehicle headlamp focus may change. This can be adjusted by rotating the knob to one of the hree level positions. 0. Off” Position The wiper is switched ‘OFF’. 1. Intermittent Wipe Push the stalk upwards to oper- ate intermittent wipe.

is switched ‘OFF’. 1. Intermittent Wipe Push the stalk upwards to oper- ate intermittent wipe. Inner rotary switch on left hand stalk is provided for intermittent front wiper delay. The switch has five delay timers. 2. Slow Wipe Push the stalk towards position (2) for con- tinuous slow wipe. 3. Fast Wipe Push the stalk towards position (3) for con- tinuous slow wipe. 4. Flick Wipe (Spring Return) Pull the stalk downwards and hold it for continuous wipe, the wiper continuously wipes across the windshield at low speed till the stalk is released. 5. Front Windshield Washer + Pull the lever little longer, to spray the washer fluid on the windshield. * The windshield wipers will operate for three cycles after the lever is released and for one more cycle after five sec- onds. 146  Manual Mode * Pull the lever little longer, to spray the washer fluid on the windshield. * The windshield wipers will operate for three cycles after the lever is released and for one more cycle after five sec-

will operate for three cycles after the lever is released and for one more cycle after five sec- onds. Auto Mode (Rain / Light Sensor (if equipped)) If your vehicle is fitted with rain and light sensor, the wipers will automatically wipe the windscreen, if it senses rainfall. Make sure that the wiper stalk is in Auto position. @ NOTE When you start the vehicle, the supply to washer motor is momentarily cut off. Rear Wash and Wipe Rain/light Sensor (if equipped) The integrated rain and light sensor is mounted on front windshield glass to sense rain and light. As per the input from sensor, the wipe and light functions will work automatically. STARTING AND DRIVING Horn Horn is located on steering wheel. Use it whenever required. AX WARNING Check out for No Horn zone, where use of horn is prohibited. 147  STARTING AND DRIVING SEATS ADJUSTMENTS First Row Seats Adjustments Manual Adjustments eo o—N “6 Driver Seat Following seat adjustments can be carried out manually. 1. Driver Seat

eo o—N “6 Driver Seat Following seat adjustments can be carried out manually. 1. Driver Seat Backrest Angle Adjustment 2. Driver Seat height adjustment 3. Driver Seat forward/backward adjust- ment lever 148 AX WARNING Do not adjust the driver’s seat while driving. Adjusting the seat while driving could cause the driver to lose control of the vehicle. 1. Driver Seat Backrest Angle Adjust- ment To change the seat back rest angle, lean forward slightly and pull up the lever (1). Adjust seat backrest until it reaches de- sired comfortable position. Make sure that lever returns to its original position and seat is securely latched. @ NOTE Adjust the seat backrest until your arms are slightly angled when holding the steering wheel. A\ WARNING Never travel in a moving vehicle with the seat backrest in an excessively re- clined position as this can be danger ous. You could slide under the seat belt in a collision. 2. Driver Seat height adjustment To raise the seat, pull and continue pump- ing

in a collision. 2. Driver Seat height adjustment To raise the seat, pull and continue pump- ing the lever (2) in the upward direction until the seat is at the desired height. To lower the seat, pump the lever downward until the seat is at desired height. 3. Driver forward / backward adjust- ment Lift lever (3) and slide the seat forwards or rearwards. Release lever and make sure that seat is securely latched. @ NOTE Adjust the driver seat position in such a way that the driver will be able to oper- ate the control pedals conformably.  o~ Co-Driver Seat Following seat adjustments can be carried out manually on Co-Driver seat. 1. Co-Driver Seat Backrest Angle Adjust- ment 2. Co-Driver Seat forward/backward ad- justment lever A\ WARNING Do not adjust the driver’s seat while driving. Adjusting the seat while driving could cause the driver to lose control of the vehicle. 1. Co-Driver seat Backrest Angle Ad- justment Similar to driver seat, to change the seat back rest angle, lean forward

Angle Ad- justment Similar to driver seat, to change the seat back rest angle, lean forward slightly and pull up the lever (1). Adjust seat backrest until it reaches desired comfortable posi- tion. Make sure that lever returns to its original position and seat is securely latched. 2. Co-Driver forward / backward ad- justment Similar to driver seat, lift lever (2) and slide the seat forwards or rearwards. Release lever and make sure that seat is securely latched. STARTING AND DRIVING Power Seats Adjustments Drive Power Seats Adjustments 1. Driver Seat Backrest Angle Adjustmen 2. Driver Seat height adjustment 3. Driver forward / backward adjustment Driver Seat Backrest Angle Adjustment To change the seat back rest angle, lean forward slightly and pull up the lever (1). Adjust seat backrest until it reaches de- sired comfortable position. Make sure that 149  STARTING AND DRIVING lever returns to its original position and seat is securely latched. @ NOTE Adjust the seat backrest until

to its original position and seat is securely latched. @ NOTE Adjust the seat backrest until your arms are slightly angled when holding the steering wheel. AX WARNING Never travel in a moving vehicle with the seat backrest in an excessively re- clined position as this can be danger- ous. You could slide under the seat belt in a collision. Driver Seat height adjustment To raise the seat, pull and continue pump- ing the lever (2) in the upward direction until the seat is at the desired height. To lower the seat, pump the lever downward until the seat is at desired height Driver forward / backward adjustment Lift lever (3) and slide the seat forwards or rearwards. Release lever and make sure that seat is securely latched. 150 Co-driver Power Seats Adjustments 1. Driver Seat Backrest Angle Adjustmen' 2. Driver forward / backward adjustment Co-Driver seat Backrest Angle Ad- justment To change the seat back rest angle, lean forward slightly and pull up the lever (1). Adjust seat backrest

the seat back rest angle, lean forward slightly and pull up the lever (1). Adjust seat backrest until it reaches de- sired comfortable position. Make sure that lever returns to its original position and seat is securely latched. Co-Driver forward / backward adjust-ment Lift lever (2) and slide the seat forwards or rearwards. Release lever and make sure that seat is securely latched  Seat Ventilation To start ventilation, press button once. it has 3 ventilation adjustment in decreas- ing order and LED glows for each press. To Stop the ventilation long press the but- ton for few seconds. Default setting is highest speed on first press. The ventilated seat by default is set to OFF whenever the vehicle START/STOP button is turned on. gy wl wi we iD Low Do not apply excessive force on venti- lation button as it may get damaged. Button operates with slight finger force as they are electronically controlled. STARTING AND DRIVING To protect ventilated seats- + Use the air ventilation seat

controlled. STARTING AND DRIVING To protect ventilated seats- + Use the air ventilation seat ONLY when the vehicle HVAC system is on. + Never use a liquids like alcohol, high viscosity oils or other to spill on venti- lated seats. Avoid spillage of liquids on the venti- lated seats surface this may lead to blockage of ventilated seat system and may not function properly. * Do not add seat covers, as it will not allow ventilated seats to function prop- erly. + Donotkeep plastic covers of seat as it is, as it will not allow ventilated seats to function properly. Ventilated seats to be vacuum cleaned regularly as there are chances of air vent hole blockage after usage. 151  STARTING AND DRIVING Rear Seat Adjustments Rear Seats Equipped) You can increase the luggage capacity by ‘olding the respective rear seats as re- quired. Folding (60-40%) (if To fold the seat: + Pull the backrest release knob to fold the seat forward. (Right side door sec- ond row). 152 + Fold the backseat as shown in

knob to fold the seat forward. (Right side door sec- ond row). 152 + Fold the backseat as shown in the fig- ure. + Lift the seat as shown in the figure. + Ensure that ‘foldable arm rest’ is close before seat folding. Follow the same procedure for driver side seat.  Rear Seats Folding (100%) (If equipped) You can increase the trunk capacity by folding the rear seat. For folding: + Pull the backrest release knob pro- vided on both side simultaneously. * Lift the seat as shown in the figure. STARTING AND DRIVING + Fold the backseat as shown in the fig- ure.  STARTING AND DRIVING AX WARNING MIRROR * You should always engage the rear seat if you do not need the through loading feature. * If the rear bench seat and seat backrest are not engaged they could fold forwards, e.g. when brak- ing suddenly or in the event of an accident. * The vehicle occupant would thereby be pushed into the seat belt by the rear bench seat or by the seat back- rest. The seat belt can no longer offer the intended

by the rear bench seat or by the seat back- rest. The seat belt can no longer offer the intended level of protection and could even cause injuries. * Objects or loads in the trunk cannot be restrained by the seat backrest. There is an increased risk of injury. + Before every trip, make sure that the seat backrests and the rear bench seat/rear seat are engaged and se- curely latched. 154 Inside Rear View Mirrors (IRVM) S To adjust the mirror move the mirror up, down or sideways manually to obtain the best rear view. When you drive at night, set the selector tab to select anti-glare mode (if equipped) to reduce glare from the headlights of ve- hicles behind you. Use antiglare position only when neces- Sary, as it reduces rear view clarity. Automatic Dimming IRVM (if equipped) 1. Photocell Sensors 2. ON/OFF button Automatic dimming rear view mirror auto- matically controls the glare from the head- lights of the car behind you in night time or low light driving conditions. Press ON/OFF

the head- lights of the car behind you in night time or low light driving conditions. Press ON/OFF button to turn ON the automatic dimming  function. The LED indicator on the IRVM shows the active status of auto dimming function. The auto dimming IRVM is defaults to the ON position whenever the ignition switch is turned ON and it is switched OFF when- ever reverse gear is engaged. For proper operation, keep the photo- cell sensors clean and do not cover the area between the IRVM and the wind- shield. Outer Rear View Mirror (ORVM) Motorized ORVM Adjustment (if equipped) The switch to adjust the motorized mirrors is located on the driver’s door. You can ad- just the mirrors when the ignition switch is in the “ACC” or “ON” position. STARTING AND DRIVING To adjust the Mirror 1. Move the mirror selection switch to L (for left side) and R (for right side) to select the mirror you wish to adjust. 2. Use the four positions of the knob to adjust the rear view mirrors to required position. 155

2. Use the four positions of the knob to adjust the rear view mirrors to required position. 155  STARTING AND DRIVING ORVM Folding Option 1: Manual Folding ORVMs can be folded or unfolded manu- ally. This is applicable only for vehicles which are not equipped with motorized folding provision. 156 Option 2: Auto folding by Smart Key When you lock the vehicle, ORVMs will be ‘olded automatically. When you unlock the vehicle, ORVMs will be unfolded automatically. In case to repeated usage, Mirror Fold- ing/Un-folding will stop functioning and wil be re-activated after delay of 2 mins. Dur- ing that period avoid repeated pressing o' Switch. Option 3: Auto Folding by Knob To fold / unfold the ORVMs, keep the Se- lector switch in center position (i.e. neither ‘L’ nor ‘R, position) and then toggle down. This will operate when the ignition switch is in the “ACC” or “ON” position.  DRIVING SUPPORT SYSTEM Automatic Parking Break Mechanical parking brake acting on the rear wheels is provided on

SYSTEM Automatic Parking Break Mechanical parking brake acting on the rear wheels is provided on the vehicle. Automatic Parking Brake located behand gear shifter. To apply the parking brake, pull the park- ing break knob fully. The parking brakes’ tell-tale light comes on in the instrument cluster while vehicle to be at ignition/On condition and for released by pushing down the knob. Always ensure parking brake is released and parking brake warning lamp is OFF before start of the drive. Park brake warning lamp in cluster at vehicle running condition indicates failure in brake system and vehicle needs to be checked at TATA Service center. If this is not possible use the vehicle with extreme precaution until you reach service center. Apply the parking brake properly before leaving the vehicle and release it before moving. Ensure Before You Park * Park the vehicle in a safe place. Switch on the indicator signal before turning to park. + Apply the parking brake. * Make sure that all

on the indicator signal before turning to park. + Apply the parking brake. * Make sure that all window glasses are closed and all lamps are turned ‘OFF’. * At night, put on the parking lights if re- quired. * Remove the key from the ignition switch and lock the vehicle. STARTING AND DRIVING + Use wheel chocks if the vehicle is parked on a slope. @ NOTE When parking on a downhill gradient, place the gear lever in ‘Reverse’ posi- tion. While parking on uphill gradient, place the gear lever in the ‘1st’ position. @ NOTE Never leave children unsupervised in the parked vehicle. They could also op- erate the vehicle’s equipment. There is a risk of an accident and injury. Do not use parking brake for braking unless unavoidable circumstances like when service brake is not working prop- erly. The braking distance is consider- ably longer and the wheels could lock. There is an increased danger of skid- ding and accidents. 157  STARTING AND DRIVING Surround View System (SVS) Surround view system

skid- ding and accidents. 157  STARTING AND DRIVING Surround View System (SVS) Surround view system displays the sur- roundings around the vehicle to the driver for safe and comfortable drive. SVS assists the driver while reversing and maneuvering the vehicle at lower speeds. Camera Locations As Shown In The Im- ages Left Side Camera Front Camera Right Side Camera 158 Rear Camera  Activation Of SVS The function is activated when: 1. Surround view soft switch is pressed on Fascia switch 2. Surround view soft switch is pressed on Head unit. 3. The shift lever is in D (Drive), N (Neu- tral) or R (Reverse) and vehicle speed is under 17 kmph and surround view soft switch is pressed. . Engage the reverse gear and vehicle speed is below 17 kmph. STARTING AND DRIVING Deactivation Of SVS SVS function is deactivated when one of the following step is performed. 1. 2. 3. Surround view soft switch is pressed again Vehicle speed is more than 17 kmph Disengage the reverse gear @ NOTE When vehicle

is pressed again Vehicle speed is more than 17 kmph Disengage the reverse gear @ NOTE When vehicle speed is more than 17 kmph, the SVS function will turn off. The function will not automati- cally turn on again, even though ve- hicle speed gets below 17 kmph. Press the switch again, to turn on the function. When vehicle speed is more than 17 Kmph SVS screen will be switch to only rear view during reverse gear. During vehicle speed is more than 17 Kmph and driver activate through soft switch/hard switch rear view shall display to user. 159  STARTING AND DRIVING Surround View System Features The Surround view system has the follow- ing features 1. 2D View 3D View Front Corner View Rear Corner View Full View Settings NQOaPond Cancel Icon 2D View By selecting 2D Icon which is available on the right corner side of the infotainment screen, cameras provide about 360 de- gree 2D top view of vehicle’s surrounding. In 2D top view mode 4 camera icons will be present around the model car image to

surrounding. In 2D top view mode 4 camera icons will be present around the model car image to switch to different sides of view. The differ- ent 2D views are as follows. |. 2D Top view + Front view Il. 2D Top view + Rear view Ill. 2D Top view + Left view IV. 2D Top view + Right view 160 2D Top + Rear view 2D Top + Left view  3D View By selecting 3D Icon, cameras provide about 360 degree 3D view of vehicle’s sur- rounding on the Infotainment screen n 3D mode view 8 camera icons will be present around the model car image to switch to different angle of view. 3D view with 8 different views Front Corner View f driver wants to focus on the front corner view, then the icon can be pressed to se- lect the view. By selecting front corner view icon, cam- era provides a focused view on the front left and right corners to provide a better visibility for safe maneuver. Fig 3. Front corner view If driver wants to focus on the rear corner view, then the icon can be pressed to se- lect the view. By

wants to focus on the rear corner view, then the icon can be pressed to se- lect the view. By selecting rear corner view icon, camera provides a focused view on the rear left and right corners to provide a better visi- bility for safe maneuver. Rear Corner View If driver wants to focus on the rear corner view, then the icon can be pressed to se- lect the view. By selecting rear corner view icon, camera provides a focused view on the rear left and right corners to provide a better visi- bility for safe maneuver. STARTING AND DRIVING rT 7 | uy Fig 4. Rear corner view Full View |. 2D Full front view By selecting 2D front view Icon which is available on the model car image, cam- eras provides about wide 2D front view of vehicle’s surrounding on the Infotainment screen. Press full view button to view front objects closer and press the same button to go back to the normal 2D front view. 2D Full Front view 161  STARTING AND DRIVING Il. 2D Full Rear view By selecting 2D rear view Icon which

Front view 161  STARTING AND DRIVING Il. 2D Full Rear view By selecting 2D rear view Icon which is available on the model car image, cam- eras provides about wide 2D view of vehi- cle’s surrounding on the Infotainment screen. Press full view button to view rear objects closer and press the same button to go back to the normal 2D rear view. 2D Full Rear View Ill. 2D Full Left view By selecting 2D left view Icon which is available on the model car image, cam- eras provides about wide 2D view of vehi- cle’s surrounding on the Infotainment screen. Press full view button to view left objects closer and press the same button to go back to the normal 2D left view. 2D Full left view IV. 2D Full Right view By selecting 2D right view Icon which is available on the model car image, cam- eras provides about wide 2D view of vehi- cle’s surrounding on the Infotainment screen. Press full view button to view right objects closer and press the same button to go back to the normal 2D right view. 2D

to view right objects closer and press the same button to go back to the normal 2D right view. 2D Full Right view Settings + Byselecting the settings icon available on the infotainment screen, driver can change the settings as required. * User can change the content settings based on the user choice. « User can change the front and rear de- fault view to any of the view i.e., either normal view or top view SVS content settings SVS front view default mode settings 162  SVS rear view default mode settings Cancel Icon By selecting the cancel icon which is avail- able on the top right corner of the infotain- ment screen, user can exit from the surround view system function. tt can be used for all the SVS features such as 2D, 3D, front & rear corner views. tt cannot be visible when vehicle gear state is reverse gear. Understanding Guidelines Indication Static Guidelines Red Line ndicates, if rear objects are in this colored zone, you have to stop the vehicle and not allowed to go backward.

rear objects are in this colored zone, you have to stop the vehicle and not allowed to go backward. If you _ still go backward, your vehicle will hit the object. STARTING AND DRIVING Yellow Line Indicates, if rear objects are in this colored zone, you have to take utmost care. How- ever, objects fall in this zone, may not hit vehicle. Green Line Indicates, if rear object is in this colored zone, you have to be cautious. Still you can go backward safely. 163  STARTING AND DRIVING PDC Guidelines Settings User can change the timer settings for PDC guidelines which is available on the infotainment display By selecting the infotainment settings icon available on the infotainment screen use able to open the settings options available in the system. The system will display the below screen when user select the settings icon. Select the driver assistance icon which is avail- able on the screen. 164 In driver assistance system will provide many other options in that user should se- lect the

164 In driver assistance system will provide many other options in that user should se- lect the park assist delay timer. System will provide three different option such as Osec, 5 sec and 10sec. Based on the user choice he/she can se- lect any option from the three. Blind View Monitor Blind view monitor will helps to reduce the crashes that happens when driver is being overtaken or changing the lanes. This system should work in ignition on and run condition irrespective of the vehicle speed. We can enable/disable the blind view monitor in HMI settings based on the user choice. Activation of Blind View Monitor * This feature is activated when user turn on the left/right turn indicator. * On activating the right turn indicator, right side rear view should be dis- played on the infotainment along with static overlays. RIGHTViEW => Right rear side view when turn on the right indicator  * On activating the left turn indicator, left side rear view should be displayed on infotainment along

activating the left turn indicator, left side rear view should be displayed on infotainment along with the static over- lays. Left rear side view when turn on the left in- dicator Deactivation Of Blind View Monitor * This feature is deactivated when user turn off the left/right turn indicator. Understanding Static Overlays Indica- tion Red Line: Indicates, if rear objects are be- hind this colored line, you are not allowed to change the lane. If you still change the lane, your vehicle will hit the object. Yellow Line: Indicates, if rear objects are behind this colored line, you have to take utmost care. However, objects fall in this zone, may not hit vehicle. Green Line: Indicates, if rear object is be- hind this colored line, you have to be cau- tious. Still you can safely change the lane. @ NOTE * When SVS is in active condition then user turn on the left/right turn indicator then system should display the blind view monitoring and if user turn off the turn indicator then sys- tem

should display the blind view monitoring and if user turn off the turn indicator then sys- tem return back to the SVS screen. ¢ When SVS is not in active condition, user turn on the left/right turn indica- tor then system should display the blind view monitoring. Once user turn off the turn indicator then sys- tem return back to infotainment home screen. Do’s And Don’ts + As the camera is, IP protected, do not detach, disassemble or modify in any manner from the actual position. This will show required visual information in display. * Do not use camera when tailgate is STARTING AND DRIVING open. If tailgate is open, visual infor- mation may not be the actual rear view of the vehicle & system will warn with message ‘Tail Gate Open, Please close. Do not use camera when driver/pas- senger door is open. If any one of the door is open, visual information may not be the actual view of the vehicle & system will warn with message ‘Door Open, Please close’. And also corre- sponding door side

& system will warn with message ‘Door Open, Please close’. And also corre- sponding door side display shall be in dark image. Do not use camera when ORVM is folded. If ORVM is folded, visual infor- mation may not be the actual view of the vehicle & system will warn with message ‘ORVM Folded’. When the camera is operated under fluorescent lights, sodium light or mer- cury light etc., illuminated areas on the lens may appear to flicker in the dis- play. Do not attach any advertisement or styling or any kind of stickers on top of camera. If this happens, camera can- 165  STARTING AND DRIVING not provide you the visual image and may damage camera. Do not add any accessory, which will obstruct camera field of view. Cleaning Camera 1. Due to environmental reasons, dust, mud or fog may accumulate on the camera lens. So regularly clean the camera lens. Use water to clean the camera lens. Do not use extreme cold or hot water. Rapid changes in temperature may brittle the camera lens. Do not

not use extreme cold or hot water. Rapid changes in temperature may brittle the camera lens. Do not apply High Pressure water for cleaning. Wipe the camera lens with soft cloth. Do not use hard cloth or material to wipe the camera lens. This will cause scratches on the camera, and leads to deteriorated visual image on the dis- play. Do not apply organic solvent, car wax, window cleaner or glass coat to clean the camera. This may damage the lens Do not use chemical solvents such as strong detergents containing high alka- 166 line or volatile organic solvents (gaso- line, acetone etc). This may damage the camera lens Do not apply heavy force on lens, while cleaning. Do not remove mud, snow on the cam- era lens using stick or hard material. Use normal water and soft cloth. AX WARNING The camera uses fish eye lens. So the size of the objects or in the dis- play may differ from the actual size and distances in low light condi- tions, the screen may darken or image may appear faint. If the

and distances in low light condi- tions, the screen may darken or image may appear faint. If the tyre sizes are changed, the po- sition of the fixed guidelines dis- played on the screen may change. During rainy conditions, image may get obscured. In such conditions, do not depend on camera view. The camera used in the vehicle, may not reproduce the same color of the real object. Do not apply any kind of force on the camera. High humidity and variation in ambi- ent temperature may result into con- densation inside the camera lens, which may further result into degra- dation of camera video feed on the screen. It is recommended that not to rely on camera video feed for parking assistance in such scenario. This phenome-non is temporary and will be automatically recovered with reduction in humidity and less vari- ation in ambient temperature. The area displayed by the camera is limited. The camera does not dis- play objects that are close to or below the bumper, underneath the vehicle, or

camera does not dis- play objects that are close to or below the bumper, underneath the vehicle, or objects out of the cam- era’s field of view. The area dis- played on the screen may vary according to vehicle orientation or road conditions.  SVS system is an aid only. User need to check surrounding for safety. Rear View Camera Rear View Camera is a visual reverse guiding system. When reversing or park- ing, make sure that there are no persons, animals or objects in the area where you are reversing. The display will be shown on the infotain- ment screen. Activation Reverse gear This system will start, if reverse gear is en- gaged, or park assist button (if equipped) is pressed or manual activation is done through Infotainment screen. Deactivation System will stop, if reverse gear is disen- gaged, or park assist button (if equipped) is pressed. If started through infotainment, the system can be stopped using a cross button on in- fotainment screen. STARTING AND DRIVING Understanding

can be stopped using a cross button on in- fotainment screen. STARTING AND DRIVING Understanding Guidelines Indication Static guidelines A Please Reverse Carefully-t = NN AN eo fo — Dynamic guidelines Green Line You can safely reverse the vehicle, but be cautious if objects fall in this zone. Yellow Line 167  STARTING AND DRIVING You have to take utmost care if objects fall in this zone. However, the objects may not hit vehicle. Red Line Red line indicates that you have to stop re- versing the vehicle. If you still go back- wards, the car will hit the obstacle. Do’s And Don’ts Do not use camera when tailgate is open. If tailgate is open, visual infor- mation may not be the actual rear view of the vehicle & system will warn with message ‘Tail Gate Open, Please close. When the camera is operated under fluorescent lights, sodium light or mer- cury light etc., illuminated areas on the lens may appear to flicker in the dis- play. Do not attach any advertisement or styling or any kind of

may appear to flicker in the dis- play. Do not attach any advertisement or styling or any kind of stickers on top of camera. If this happens, camera can- not provide you the visual image and it may damage the camera. Do not add any accessory, which will 168 cause blockage to the camera’s field of view. Cleaning Camera 1. Due to environmental reasons, dust, mud or fog may accumulate on the camera lens. So regularly clean the camera lens. Use water to clean the camera lens. Do not use extreme cold or hot water. Rapid changes in temperature may brittle the camera lens. Do not apply High Pressure water for cleaning. Wipe the camera lens with soft cloth. Do not use hard cloth or material to wipe the camera lens. This will cause scratches on the camera, and leads to deteriorated visual image on the dis- play. Do not apply organic solvent, car wax, window cleaner or glass coat to clean he camera. If this is ap-plied, wipe it off as soon as possible. Do not apply heavy force on lens, while

If this is ap-plied, wipe it off as soon as possible. Do not apply heavy force on lens, while cleaning. Do not remove mud, snow on the cam- era lens using stick or hard material. Use normal water and soft cloth. ZX WARNING The camera uses fish eye lens. So the size of the objects or in the dis- play may differ from the actual size and distance. In low light conditions, the screen may darken or image may appear faint. If the tire sizes are changed, the po- sition of the fixed guidelines dis- played on the screen may change. During rainy conditions, image may get obscured. In such conditions, do not depend on camera view. The camera used in the vehicle, may not reproduce the same color of the real object. In case of damage of the rear por- tion of the vehicle, camera position may change. Which causes wrong visual information on display. In case of damage, make sure that, camera is fitted properly at the in- tended location.  In case of uneven road conditions or up-hill or downhill

properly at the in- tended location.  In case of uneven road conditions or up-hill or downhill conditions, do not depend on rear view camera park aid. Do not apply any kind of force on the camera. Always use rear View mirrors along with Rear View Camera for confirm- ing the safety of the rear and the surrounding conditions. High humidity and variation in ambi- ent temperature may result into con- densation inside the camera lens, which may further result into degra- dation of camera video feed on the screen. It is recommended that not to rely on camera video feed for parking assistance in such scenario. This phenomenon is temporary and will be automatically recovered with reduction in humidity and less vari- ation in ambient temperature. The area displayed by the rear view camera is limited. The camera does not display objects that are close to or below the bumper, underneath the vehicle, or objects out of the camera’s field of view. The area dis- played on the screen may vary ac-

or objects out of the camera’s field of view. The area dis- played on the screen may vary ac- cording to vehicle orientation or road conditions. Rear View Camera System Precautions Area Displayed on Screen The rear view camera system displays an image of the view from the bumper of the rear area of the vehicle. STARTING AND DRIVING The area displayed on the screen may vary according to vehicle orientation conditions. Objects, which are close to either cor- ner of the bumper or under the bumper, cannot be seen on the screen. The camera uses a special lens. The distance of the image that appears on the screen differs from the actual dis- tance. The camera may not display items that are located higher than the camera’s field of view. 169  STARTING AND DRIVING When sharp up gradient behind the vehicle The distance guidelines will appear to be closer to the vehicle than the actual dis- ance. Because of this, objects will appear to be arther away than they actually are. In the same way,

Because of this, objects will appear to be arther away than they actually are. In the same way, there will be a margin of error between the guidelines and the ac- ual distance/course on the road. When sharp down gradient behind the vehicle The distance guidelines will appear to be further from the vehicle than the ac- tual distance. Because of this, objects will appear to be closer than they actually are. In the same way, there will be a margin of error between the guidelines and the actual distance/course on the road.  When any part of the vehicle sags A margin of error When any part of the vehicle sags due to the number of passengers or the distribu- tion of the load, there is a margin of error between the fixed guide lines on the screen and the actual distance/course on the road. When approaching sional objects three-dimen- The distance guidelines are displayed ac- cording to flat surfaced objects (such as the road). It is not possible to determine the position of three-dimensional

objects (such as the road). It is not possible to determine the position of three-dimensional objects (such as vehicles) using the distance guidelines. When approaching a three-di- mensional object. Distance guidelines STARTING AND DRIVING Visually check the surroundings and the area behind the vehicle. On the screen, it appears that a truck is parked at point B. However, in reality if you back up to point A, you will hit the truck. On the screen, it appears that Ais closest and C is furthest away. However, in reality, the distance to Aand C is the same, and B is further away from A and C. 171  STARTING AND DRIVING Visually check the surroundings and the Vehicle width guidelines area behind the vehicle. In the case shown below, the truck appears to be outside of the vehicle width guidelines and the vehi- cle does not look as if it hits the truck. However, the rear body of the truck may actually cross over the vehicle width guidelines. In reality if you back up as guided by the vehicle

cross over the vehicle width guidelines. In reality if you back up as guided by the vehicle width guidelines, the vehicle may hit the truck. Front Park Assist System Activation Front park assist option can be enabled through Infotainment screen. Go to settings Select Driver Assistance Enable front park assist option Front park assist will work in following con- ditions: 1. If reverse gear is engaged and Front park assist option is enabled. 172  2. if user has turned ON Low speed acti- vation from user settings menu. When- ever vehicle speed is below 10kmph and reverse gear is not engaged and some object is detected in the front of vehicle. After IGN ON (when vehicle speed is less than 10 kmph and reverse gear is not engaged). Audio warning for 10 seconds while the visual warning will continue to be shown till the object is present Deactivation System will stop, if reverse gear is disen- gaged and vehicle is moved above 10Kmph. If started through infotainment, the system can be stopped

gaged and vehicle is moved above 10Kmph. If started through infotainment, the system can be stopped using a Front Park Assist option on infotainment screen. Approx. Distance Range Audible In- formation Visual From Warning Bumper (in cm) 25-30 | RedZone [Continuous Beep 31-60 | Yellow Zone | Fast Beep 61-100 | Green Zone | Slow Beep Reverse Park Assist System Park Assist system is an electronic parking aid that will assist you to park your vehicle safely when in reverse gear mode. It pro- vides audio and visual information through the vehicles infotainment system. The user can view the Park assist screen STARTING AND DRIVING by selecting this feature in Infotainment display to see any obstacle behind the ve- hicle while parking. =p The system also displays the Park assist screen when the reverse gear is engaged. It provides audio and visual information through the vehicles infotainment system / Buzzer. 173  STARTING AND DRIVING A\ WARNING 0 to 25 cm obstacle detection perform- ance is

/ Buzzer. 173  STARTING AND DRIVING A\ WARNING 0 to 25 cm obstacle detection perform- ance is not guaranteed due to ultrasonic sensor technology limitation. Variant where infotainment display is not present and audio warning is given hrough a buzzer, on activating the Park Assist system, a tone will be played within irst two seconds to indicate the proper unctioning of the system. After these two seconds, normal functioning of the system will continue. If no tone is heard for first lwo seconds, it shall mean that Park Assist System is faulty. The owner should, in that case, go to the nearest dealer for rectifica- ion. 174 Park Assist Indications In case reverse park assist system mal- functions, fault message may appear on the infotainment screen. Reason for this fault may be 1. Park Assist Controller / Body Control Module Failure” 2. Sensor Malfunction Park Assist, Unknown Fault! es oy 0 A Critical Fault Park Assist System not available get it rectified by TATA dealer Reverse Park

oy 0 A Critical Fault Park Assist System not available get it rectified by TATA dealer Reverse Park Assist Limitations Reverse Park Assist system is not a colli- sion avoiding system. It is solely the driver’s responsibility to park the vehicle safely. Reverse Park Assist feature works on ultra sound echo technology, due to which per- formance is not guaranteed in following scenarios: * If the object has a sharp edge surface, where surface may divert echoes from sensor reception. * If object is mesh fence made up of thin wires, where echoes can’t be given by he surface. + Fast moving objects passes in the sen- sor’s field of detection, where echoes are not processed by the system. * If object is made/covered by foam or sponge or snow where ultrasonic sound signals are absorbed. * Objects close to the rear bumper can go undetected by the Reverse Park Assist’s field of detection. Driver should use extreme caution while parking the vehicle. * If height of the bumper is changed due to

should use extreme caution while parking the vehicle. * If height of the bumper is changed due to alteration to the suspension or other causes.  If the sensor areas are extremely hot from direct sunlight or cold due to freezing weather. * If Sensors are covered by a hand, sticker, accessory, etc. * If ultrasonic noise is present around Vehicle due to other vehicle sensors, horn, air braking system (large vehi- cles), Wireless transmitters or mobile phones. «If the vehicle speed exceeds 10kmph, the system will not warn you even though objects are detected, error message ‘Vehicle Speed is high, drive slowly!’ will appear. * Driving on uneven road surfaces e.g. Gravel, unpaved roads, Artificial Speed Breakers, or gradient. + Poles of square/rectangular cross sec- tion might not be detected due to the ultrasonic technology limitation. ZX WARNING Due to any reason, if the sensor gets misaligned or loses its intended fitment position, contact your dealer for refit- ment. Turning the

misaligned or loses its intended fitment position, contact your dealer for refit- ment. Turning the ignition ‘OFF’ ‘while the park assist feature is active would disable it. Reverse Park Assist System Preventive Maintenance * Regularly clean the Sensors/camera* (“if equipped) and keep them free from dust, ice, mud, water, chewing gum etc. for proper working of the system. Use a smooth cloth for cleaning. * Do not use water at high pressure for cleaning the sensor or camera. * Do not cover the Sensors/camera* (*if equipped) surface with any additional fitment. This will interrupt park assist performance. ¢ Do not remove mud, snow on the sen- sors using stick or hard material. Use normal water and soft cloth. STARTING AND DRIVING General Warning In low light conditions, the screen may darken or image may appear faint. 2. If the tire sizes are changed, the posi- tion of the fixed guidelines dis-played on the screen may change. 3. In case of damage of the rear portion of the vehicle,

dis-played on the screen may change. 3. In case of damage of the rear portion of the vehicle, Reverse Park Assist sensors position may change which causes wrong visual information on display. In case of damage make sure that Reverse Park Assist sensors are fitted properly at the intended location. 4. In case of uneven road conditions or up-hill or downhill conditions, do not depend on Reverse Park Assist aid. 5. Do not apply any kind of force on the reverse park assist sensors. 6. Always use rear view mirrors along with Reverse Park Assist for confirm- ing the safety of the rear and the sur- rounding conditions. 175  STARTING AND DRIVING AUTOMATIC VEHICLE HOLD (if equipped) The system eliminates the requirement of depressing the brake pedal continuously when the vehicle stops in between run- ning. The AVH system eliminates the require- ment of depressing the brake pedal con- tinuously when the vehicle stops in between running. How to Apply 1. Depress the Brake pedal. 2. Ensure

when the vehicle stops in between running. How to Apply 1. Depress the Brake pedal. 2. Ensure seatbelt is fasten and driver's 176 door is closed. 3. Press AVH switch. 4. Auto Hold indication turns on in the Cluster which indicates AVH is turned ON and in Standby mode. 5. When the vehicle reaches the stand- still condition though brake pedal is re- leased AVH holds the vehicle and AVH indication changes the color from white to green. AVH will be released when accelerator pedal is depressed in R (Reverse), D (Drive). NOTE + When the vehicle is turned off keep- ing the Auto Vehicle Hold in the ON condition, Auto Vehicle Hold will gets released and APB will get au- tomatically applied. ¢ For safety, for smooth take off de- press the accelerator pedal slowly when the AVH is active. AVH indication and warning lamps which will appear on the cluster is provided below. AUTO HOLD AVH indication ON AVH active indication (Green color) AVH failure indication (Amber color) How to Disengage AVH In

ON AVH active indication (Green color) AVH failure indication (Amber color) How to Disengage AVH In Ignition ON Condition depress the Auto hold switch the Auto Hold indication in white color will disappear from the cluster indicating AVH is turned off. AVH once turned ON will not be turned off automatically until it is deselected by  switch input from user. @ NOTE Auto hold function will not become ac- tive if + Driver Seat bet is not buckled. * Driver Door is not closed properly. + APB is in applied condition. For end user safety Auto hold will shift au- tomatically to APB in below conditions: 1. Vehicle is in standstill for more than 3 minutes. 2. Gear leaver shift from any of Drive (D), Reverse(R) to Park (P) Position for AT Transmission vehicles. 3. If you turn off the vehicle/Ignition in standstill condition. 4. Vehicle is standing on steep slope. In above conditions AVH indication will change from Green to white and APB in- dication will turn on in the cluster. AX WARNING If any

will change from Green to white and APB in- dication will turn on in the cluster. AX WARNING If any abnormality is present in the sys- tem, AVH malfunction lamp in amber colour will glow which is amber in colour. Kindly do the ignition latch of 30 seconds and check if the same behav- ior is there. If the Malfunction lamp is still there, get your parking brake sys- tem checked with the authorized Tata dealer. STARTING AND DRIVING Precautions During Vehicle Towing with APB Before towing please ensure APB is not engaged as it can damage Brake pads and Brake components during vehicle tow- ing. 1. APB should be manually released if battery of the vehicle is healthy during towing and Ignition should be kept in ON state till vehicle reaches to service centre. 2. If vehicle battery is not in healthy state during vehicle towing external power is required for manual release of APB and ignition should be ON till vehicle reaches to service centre. 3. If it is not possible to keep the ignition ON

be ON till vehicle reaches to service centre. 3. If it is not possible to keep the ignition ON till vehicle reaches to service cen- ter then keep APB button pressed in release position, Brake paddle pressed and turn off the ignition this will avoid auto engagement of APB during switching off the ignition. 177  STARTING AND DRIVING @ NOTE + In case of vehicle is power down APB cannot be released, External supply is necessary to release the APB. * It is not recommended to touch/re- move any component of Rear calipers to disengage the APB as it will damage the caliper Compo- nents permanently. AX WARNING DO NOT jump start the vehicle, since it is an EV. If the 12V battery is completely discharged, contact the nearest TATA MOTORS EV service center.  INTERIOR FEATURES CLIMATE CONTROL Air Distribution The Climate Control regulates the temperature inside the vehicle and filter the dust particles in cabin based on the user set temperature settings. The air is distributed through the vents in

in cabin based on the user set temperature settings. The air is distributed through the vents in the passenger compartment as shown below: 179  INTERIOR FEATURES Air Vents Dashboard Side And Front Centre Vent Air vents are available on the dashboard. The direction of air flow can be adjusted using sliders on the respective vents. Dashboard Side Vent 180 Front Center Vent Rear Ac Vent Rear AC vents are available between two front seats. It can be switched ‘ON’ pro- vided that front AC is switched ‘ON’.  FULLY AUTOMATIC TEMPERA- TURE CONTROL (FATC) (if equipped) FATC system controls the in-cabin temper- ature of the vehicle automatically and pro- vides maximum passenger convenience regardless of outside weather conditions. Display Unit Bue! 1. AC compressor ON/OFF 2. Blower speed control toggle switch 3. Maximum defrost 4. Rear window demister Fresh air / recirculation Air distribution (mode) OFF mode Auto ON selection ONO 9. Temperature control toggle switch 10. Xpress cooling 11. In

OFF mode Auto ON selection ONO 9. Temperature control toggle switch 10. Xpress cooling 11. In car Sensor Display Screen FATC display is shown on main display screen. FATC functions can be controlled using both the FATC control panel and the touch screen display. Whenever the user selects any switch or moves the toggle switch, then the display unit will show the relevant climate Informa- tion. INTERIOR FEATURES Also, when the display is not in climate mode then climate information will be dis- played on the all-time display available on the top bar and widget. Ac On / Off Select the AC ON/OFF switch to turn the air conditioning ON or OFF. The AC icon activated on the display when the AC is ON. Blower Speed Control Toggle Switch Move toggle switch up & down to increase & decrease the blower speed. Max Defrost 1. It directs the main airflow towards 181  INTERIOR FEATURES windscreen for faster defrosting. (It also overrides any mode selection you may have made). 2. When you turn off the

defrosting. (It also overrides any mode selection you may have made). 2. When you turn off the maximum de- frost, the system returns to its former settings. For your safety make sure you have a clear view through all the windows be- fore driving. Rear Window Demister REAR Select the rear window demister switch to turn it ON or OFF. The system will be de- activated after 15 min of continuous oper- ation. Fresh Air / Recirculation SD, 1... When the recirculation switch is turned ON, air from the vehicle’s inte- rior is sent throughout the system. 2. When the recirculation switch is turned OFF, air from outside enters into the cabin (fresh mode). Whenever discomfort is felt, switch to fresh air mode. The outside air intakes for the cli-mate control systems are at the base of wind- screen. Keep this area clear from leaves and other debris. Use recirculation mode for faster heating and cooling. However, keeping the system in recirculation mode - particularly when the AC is in OFF - can

However, keeping the system in recirculation mode - particularly when the AC is in OFF - can cause fogging of windows. Air Distribution (mode) In AUTO mode, the FATC system will reg- ulate the mode automatically. However, user override is possible with the use of MODE switch to select the desired airflow mode. Each time you select the MODE switch, he display shows the mode selected. >? Directs air through the center and 1” |side air vents «> ¢|Directs air through the center, side "| and foot well vents ¢|Directs air through the foot well air 21 |vents Directs air through the defroster & oe foot well vents (De-fault fresh air mode) Directs air through the defroster GP vents (Default fresh air mode)  Off Mode Select the OFF switch to turn the system ‘OFF’. OFF will be displayed on the info- tainment screen. Auto On Selection Button To put the automatic climate control in fully automatic mode: 1. Select the ‘AUTO’ switch. 2. Set the desired temperature by toggle switch. The display will

1. Select the ‘AUTO’ switch. 2. Set the desired temperature by toggle switch. The display will show all the functions during ‘AUTO’ mode. 3. The system automatically selects the proper mix of conditioned and / or heated air that will, as quickly as pos- sible, raise or lower the interior temper- ature to your preference. 4. When you set the temperature to its lower limit (Lo) or its upper limit (Hi), the system runs at full cooling or heat- ing only. It does not regulate the inte- rior temperature. @ NOTE In ‘AUTO’ mode, the FATC system will regulate the blower speed automati- cally. Semi-automatic Operation You can manually select various functions of the climate control system when it is in fully automatic mode. All other features re- main automatically controlled. Making any manual selection causes the word ‘AUTO’ in the display to go OFF and the overrid- den setting is displayed. System will re- main in semiautomatic mode till ‘AUTO’ is selected again. INTERIOR FEATURES

System will re- main in semiautomatic mode till ‘AUTO’ is selected again. INTERIOR FEATURES Temperature Control Knob Move the temperature control toggle switch up to increases the temperature of the air. The desired temperature will be in- creased by steps of 0.5°C. User can select temperature range from 18°C to 30°C. Move the toggle switch down to reduce the temperature. When you set the temperature to its lower limit (Lo) or its upper limit (Hi), the system runs at full cooling or heating only. It does- n't regulate the interior temperature. Xpress Cooling all> XPRESS Cooling can be turned ON/OFF by selecting XPRESS COOL icon. This helps cabin to reach to comfort tempera- tures quickly by optimally setting the air conditioning to maximum cooling. 183  INTERIOR FEATURES Also, if required, the driver window will roll down to flush the hot air from inside the cabin. Once cabin has been sufficiently flushed, the system will announce to take driver window’s roll up which can be taken up

flushed, the system will announce to take driver window’s roll up which can be taken up using window winding switch. Driver side window may roll down, if: * The cabin temperature is more than outside temperature. + — Ifitis not raining. + Vehicle Speed is less than 40 kmph Further, after sufficiently cooling the cabin, the Xpress cooling function will auto switch off and revert back to customer pre-se- lected settings. Xpress cooling functionality is used to im- prove the HVAC system performance in case of cabin temperature being consider- ably greater than outside air temperature. The system will be deactivated automati- cally after 500 sec of continuous opera- tion. 184 The Xpress Cool function can only be turned ON if the Ambient temperature is above 18 degree Celsius. FATC Sensors (FATC Only) Solar Sensor FATC system is fitted with three sensors.(if equipped) Solar sensor is on the top of the dash- board at the right hand side of defroster grill. Outside Ambient Temperature (OAT)

top of the dash- board at the right hand side of defroster grill. Outside Ambient Temperature (OAT) Sensor Outside Ambient Temperature (OAT) sen- sor located under the front bumper grill. In-car Sensor On Control Panel In-car sensor is located on FATC control panel. OTE «Do not cover or spill any liquid on sensors. . Do not cover sensor, this may cause the sensor to malfunction. This may lead to FATC not function- ing to desired level.  CABIN AIR PURIFICATION The Climate Control System fitted with ad- vance filter for cabin air purification. Pollen Filter (If equipped): The filter takes care of dust particles and other pollutants. PM2.5 Combi filter (If equipped) : This high efficiency filter cleans the PM2.5 micron particles and harmful gases coming from atmosphere pollution and volatile organic compounds Replace the Filter as per Mainte- nance schedule. More frequent filter replacement are required/ recom- mended in case of vehicle is driven in heavy dusty conditions. If the ve-

are required/ recom- mended in case of vehicle is driven in heavy dusty conditions. If the ve- hicle is driven in heavy dusty condi- tions more frequent __ filter replacement are required. Replace the filter if you find poor ventilation, Cooling or Demisting and poor Air Quality Index (AQI). Air Quality Index : (If equipped) Climate control system fitted with FATC calculates Air Quality Index (AQI) of cabin using PM2.5 AQI Index. FATC System in AUTO Mode automat- ically sets the blower speed and switches to recirculation air mode to improve AQI inside the cabin. The calculated AQI is displayed on dis- play unit along with severity index. @ NOTE AQ! calculation will be effective after 30secs , ignition ON and no value will be displayed during this period. If AQI does not improve in some time get sensor and Cabin filter in- spected. INTERIOR FEATURES FASCIA SWITCHES Charging gun lock/unlock Front Fog Lamps (If equipped) Hill Decent Control Hazard warning switch Tail gate opening Central

Front Fog Lamps (If equipped) Hill Decent Control Hazard warning switch Tail gate opening Central lock/unlock Surround View System (SVS) Charger Gun Lock Unlock Charging socket inlet is located at Rear LH side of vehicle . It is mandatory that the charging gun should be locked with CCS 185 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7.  INTERIOR FEATURES 2 inlet during the charging process. Charg- ing gun unlock switch is used to unlock the actuator present in CCS type 2 inlet to allow charging cable to be taken out. @ NOTE Make sure both AC slow charging & DC fast charging is De-energised / off state. Front Fog Lamps (if equipped) =), The front fog lamps are located on the ront bumper. In poor visibility conditions due to fog, snow or rain, the fog lamps make visibility better and make it easier for 186 other road users to see you. It turns to ‘ON’ when the fog lamp switch is turned on when the ignition is ‘ON’ and when the po- sition and parking/ head lamp is ‘ON’. An indicator on front fog lamp knob will

and when the po- sition and parking/ head lamp is ‘ON’. An indicator on front fog lamp knob will come on when the front fog light is ‘ON’. Hill Decent Control While driving down on a hill slope, activate the HDC feature by pressing this switch. Hazard Warning Switch Press the hazard warning switch to acti- vate the hazard warning. All the turn signal lamps will flash simultaneously. To turn OFF, press the switch again. Tail Gate Opening To unlatch the tail gate, press the switch located on fascia switch. Central Lock/unlock To open the door, press the Lock/unlock door switch located on the fascia switch. Surround View Camera (360° View) Press this switch to see the 360°view in the display screen. POWER SUNROOF It bring natural light and fresh air into pas- senger compartment .The cabin becomes more illuminated and bright which gives pleasant feeling while driving and makes driving experience more enjoyable and more relaxed. Sunroof allows air to flow evenly from the roof which is must

more enjoyable and more relaxed. Sunroof allows air to flow evenly from the roof which is must quieter and less intru- sive than wind blowing through a side win- dow. Sunroof can be operated by Manual Switch, Voice Command and by Rain De- tection/Vehicle Lock.  Manual Switch Rush) SunroofiClosing (tostiltiUp/ Down); ratt O | Sunreot{Open) This switch is used to open, close, tilt up & tilt down the sunroof as and when re- quired with switch intended operation. 1. Pull the knob away from the windshield to open the sunroof. It will be having two detents. * 1st detent Manual (long press) to open and stop at desired position. * 2nd detent Express (one touch) to open Sunroof completely. 2. Push the knob towards the windshield to close the sunroof. It will be having two detents. * 1st detent Manual (long press) to close and stop at desired position. * 2nd detent Express (one touch) to close Sunroof completely. 3. Press at the center of the knob for tilt up/down function. Sunroof switch

Sunroof completely. 3. Press at the center of the knob for tilt up/down function. Sunroof switch mounted in overhead console near roof lamp. Sunshade Open Position INTERIOR FEATURES Sunshade Close Position Sunroof Voice Command Ensure vehicle is in ON condition. + Enable voice recognition via steering wheel switch or TATA Assist icon from the infotainment screen. 187  INTERIOR FEATURES Settings Q Voice Assistant + System will prompted with “How can | help?”. 188 Give the “sunroof open/close” com- mand. Sunroof will be opened/closed. Warning for Voice Command Speak the commands /Instruction in a neutral English accent for best results. Do not take long pauses (greater than 1 second) while speaking the words in a command. Speak the words of the command at a constant rate. Avoid varying your pitch and volume while speaking the commands. Speak clearly and loudly at a reasonable speed. Ensure that there is no noise distur- bance when you speak the commands like, other passengers in the

that there is no noise distur- bance when you speak the commands like, other passengers in the vehicle are talking or there is lot of wind noise. Disturbance from external sound sources may result in poor voice recognition. Always face forward while speaking your commands as the voice recogni- tion quality is best in this orientation.  Follow the Emergency Close Command as Below: Emergency close feature can be used, if Sliding sunroof or Sunshade consecutive reversal movement observed 3 times within 10 sec then follow the steps given below: 1. On the 4" attempt continuously press the sunroof close switch - position (2) or Sunshade close switch - position (6) until it closes completely to ensure oc- cupant privacy, safety & theft preven- tion from Sun-roof open window. This is Emergency Close Feature. A\ WARNING Never keep your hands or head in the Sunroof window while per-forming this operation it may cause severe injury, since Anti-pinch function will not work at this 4"" attempt. 2.

it may cause severe injury, since Anti-pinch function will not work at this 4"" attempt. 2. Once the sunroof or Sunshade is com- pletely closed, release the switch. 3. Alternatively, User may wait for min. 30 secs before operating Sunroof and Sunshade, then Sunroof can be oper- ated with Normal Functions. @ NOTE If the Sunroof doesn’t operate as above, Visit an authorized TATA MOTORS dealer or an authorized TATA MOTORS Service Facility for assistance. @ NOTE + We strongly recommend to avoid closing/operating of the Sunroof glass when vehicle is passing over heavy rough road / Pot holes / speed breaker for ensuring safety of occupants. + The user may close the glass after the vehicle has passed over heavy rough road / Pot holes / speed breaker OR by slowing down the ve- hicle for ensuring safety of occu- pants. + In the above cases, the glass can be closed with Emergency Close Feature. INTERIOR FEATURES Sunroof Closure on Auto Detection of Rain/vehicle Lock For User Convenience /

INTERIOR FEATURES Sunroof Closure on Auto Detection of Rain/vehicle Lock For User Convenience / Protection of ve- hicle, sunroof will automatically close under following conditions: + Rain Detection: When sunroof is open and rain is detected (based on Wiper speed is slow/high upon raining), then Sunroof will close automatically * Vehicle Locking: When Ignition is off and driver came out of the vehicle by carrying the Remote key and driver locking the vehicle through remotely or through driver door but sunroof is still open then it will close automatically to avoid any unforeseen situation. @ NOTE Combi Switch should be in auto mode to close sunroof with rain sensor. 189  INTERIOR FEATURES Automatic Reversal / Anti-pinch Func- tion If the sunroof senses any obstacle while it is closing then it will reverse its direction and opens the sunroof so that trapped ob- ject will get released easily. The auto re- verse function may not work if very thin or soft object is caught between the

easily. The auto re- verse function may not work if very thin or soft object is caught between the sunroof assembly. Anti-Pinch/ Automatic reversal is a safety feature however to override it and operate sunroof manually, press sun- roof close switch within 10 seconds of auto-reversal completion and hold it till sunroof is fully closed. 190 AX WARNING Never try pinching of any part of your body intentionally to activate the Auto- matic reversal function. The Automatic reversal function may not work if something gets stuck just be- fore the sunroof fully closes. Warning For Sunroof Even though the sunroof can be operated when the ignition key is in the ON position (the vehicle is not running), operating the sunroof repeatedly with the vehicle turned off will run down the battery. Operate the sunroof while the vehicle is running When a desired sunroof operation is com- pleted, release the switch. If you keep pressing the switch, it could cause a mal- function. Especially in winter, never

If you keep pressing the switch, it could cause a mal- function. Especially in winter, never oper- ate the sunroof if moving areas are iced. Wait until the areas are de-iced. Make sure head, hands, arms or any other body parts or objects are out of the way before operating the sunroof. Body parts or objects may get pinched causing in- juries or vehicle damage. Never deliberately use your body parts to test the automatic reversal function. The sunroof glass may reverse direction, but there is a risk of injury. Dust accumulated between the sunroof and roof panel can make noise or cause any damage. Open the sunroof and re- move dust regularly using a clean cloth. Do not sit on the top of the sunroof. It may cause injury or vehicle damage. Do not allow passengers to lean out of an open sunroof whilst the vehicle is in mo- tion. Injuries may occur from objects such as tree branches. Safety of the vehicle occupants must be observed at all times. Do not allow limbs to be placed in the moving

the vehicle occupants must be observed at all times. Do not allow limbs to be placed in the moving path of the sun- roof at any time, injury may occur. WARNING High Pressure wash Jet Flow should not be directed on Sunroof sealing area around periphery of glass. Doing so many lead to water leakage inside  cabin. Initializing The Power Sunroof In the event of a power failure or while re- placing the dead fuse or battery discon- nection when the sunroof is in motion, then sunroof will require initialization when the power is restored. Initializing Procedure 1. Turn ON the ignition. 2. Close the sunroof fully by pressing ‘sunroof close switch’ and keep the switch pressed for 1-2 seconds after the roof is fully closed, till clicking sound comes from Sunroof. 3. The Initializing command is complete, Check if the Express open/close fea- tures are working. 1. B-Call Switch: |-Call will connect you to TATA MOTORS Roadside assistance for Towing. Not for ambulance service. 2. Red LED Indication:

to TATA MOTORS Roadside assistance for Towing. Not for ambulance service. 2. Red LED Indication: Red LED indi- cates the fault or failure in B-Call/E- Call functionality. 3. Green LED Indication: Green LED in- dicates the status of ongoing B-Call or E-Call. 4. E-Call Switch (Emergency Call or SOS Switch): E-Call will connect you to towing and ambulance services. INTERIOR FEATURES B-call And E-call Switch (if equipped) @ NOTE *Subject to mobile network, connectivity and location mentioned. 191  INTERIOR FEATURES STEERING MOUNTED CONTROLS (if equipped) Steering Mounted Controls (LHS) 1. Volume Press above switch to increase or de- crease volume of music system / radio. 2. Phone Receive Press above switch to accept incoming call when a cell phone is connected via Bluetooth. 3. Source Press above switch to select the required 192 source in the infotainment system i.e. USB, AM, FM and Bluetooth. @ NOTE For more information, refer infotainment manual. Refer link -

USB, AM, FM and Bluetooth. @ NOTE For more information, refer infotainment manual. Refer link - https://cars.tatamotors.com/ 4. Seek /preset If the Seek/Preset switch is pressed up or down. It will function in the following modes. Radio Mode - It will function as the preset station up/down button. Media Mode - It will function as the TRACK UP/DOWN button. 5. Push To Talk For Voice Recognition, press this switch. The system mutes/ pauses the currently played audio and you will hear a beep sound to indicate the activation of the voice recognition feature. The system dis- plays the voice recognition screen on In- fotainment to indicate activation of the feature. 6. Phone Reject Press the switch to reject or hang up a phone call. 7. Mute Press the switch to mute a phone call / music system / radio. Steering Mounted Controls (RHS) 1. Page Up/down If cluster screen is selected, with Up/Down switch you can access the submenu screens of a main menu.  2. Pagination Press the switch to enter in

you can access the submenu screens of a main menu.  2. Pagination Press the switch to enter in to cluster screen. 3. Cruise ON/OFF Press the switch to turn ON/OFF the cruise function. 4. SET+/ SET- Accelerate the vehicle to desired speed, Press the SET + to select the required cruise speed. When the cruise control is set, you can increase or decrease the speed by pushing SET+/ SET- buttons re- spectively. 5. RES / CAN To resume a previously set speed, push the RES button and release. This switch is also used to cancel /deactivate (CAN) cruise control system without erasing the set speed from memory. 6. View (if equipped) Press the view button to switch between the dials & driver information display of in- strument cluster. 7. Selection (OK) Push the OK button to access/select the submenu screens of a main menu item. Regeneration Switch Regeneration Level Up Regeneration Level Down * By using the regeneration switch (Pull type) driver can Up/Down regeneration level. * Level down switch

the regeneration switch (Pull type) driver can Up/Down regeneration level. * Level down switch can be used to re- duce regeneration level (3 2 1 —OFF) + Level Up switch can be used to in- crease the regeneration level (OFF —1 2 3) INTERIOR FEATURES + Default regeneration level on the ve- hicle when vehicl Level 1. je is cranked will be No Regeneration Minimum Regener- Level 1 | ation Level 2 Intermediate Re- generation Level 3 Maximum Regen- eration 193  INTERIOR FEATURES INFOTAINMENT SYSTEM DISPLAY Option II Option III Option | 194  INTERIOR FEATURES Master /force Restart Process change button (long Press) for more MIC (if equipped) . . than 10 sec) and release as soon as If your infotainment system touch screen . 1 ‘ display’s goes blank becomes unresponsive or shows some unusual behavior, then you can restart it to @ NOTE potentially resolve the issue. Follow some . . + It is preferable to do one Ignition basic steps given below and you can restart the system. OFF to ON cycle after

to do one Ignition basic steps given below and you can restart the system. OFF to ON cycle after Master/Force . . restart to synchronize vehicle set- To restart the infotainment system tings with the TATA Infotainment System. + If the reboot does not work or mas- ter/force restarts are required on a weekly or daily basis, vehicle shall be taken to dealership. There, the _. . dealer can update your firmware or Mic is provided on the roof near the roof inspect the system for hard-ware lamp. problem. + Force/Master restart keeps the stored data, such as call history, text message information, and previ- ously paired phones as it is. 1. Park the vehicle. 2. Hold the Steering wheel Mute button (long press) (as shown in above image) for about 10 secs. 3. Now hold the Steering wheel source 195  INTERIOR FEATURES SPEAKERS & TWEETER equipped) (if 196 Speakers and Tweeters are available in models with infotainment system. Provi- sions are given for music system and speakers on versions without

with infotainment system. Provi- sions are given for music system and speakers on versions without infotainment system. USB Port(if equipped) Front USB A + C Charger A type USB port is used to connect your portable digital music players, pen drives etc. for playing music tracks through the vehicle’s music system. C type USB port is used for fast charging of mobiles which are having C type inter- face.  Rear USB A + C Charger POWER SOCKET On Center Console Connect to fast charger your device like smartphone/Tablets/Laptop/iPhone /iPad INTERIOR FEATURES Behind Rear Seat On LH Side The power socket will work when the igni- ion switch is in the “ACC” or “ON” position. This socket can be used to provide 12V (10A) power for electrical accessories. + Use of unapproved electrical acces- sories can cause damage to your vehi- cle’s electrical system. + Make sure that any electrical acces- sories you use are designed to plug into this type of socket and rating. 197  INTERIOR FEATURES ANTENNA

you use are designed to plug into this type of socket and rating. 197  INTERIOR FEATURES ANTENNA LAMPS b) DOOR Roof Lamp Interior roof lighting lamp is provided on the roof with inbuilt switch. In this position the lamp turns to ‘ON’ when either of the doors are opened. When the last door is closed, the lamp will turn ‘OFF’ with dimming. This helps settling in the seat and inserting the key in the ignition switch. When the key is turned to the ‘IGN’ position, the lamp goes ‘OFF’ immediately. c) OFF In this position, the lamp will remain ‘OFF’. Shark FIN antenna is provided on the roof at rear end. The lamp will turn ‘ON’ as long as the switch is in this position. 198  Boot Lamp HEAD LAMP AND TAIL LAMP Head Lamp a Oar On 1. Turn Indicator / DRL / PO 2. Head lamp (High / Low beam) 3. Fog lamp INTERIOR FEATURES Tail Lamp Position Lamp Turn Indicator Tail/stop Lamp Reverse Lamp Reflex Reflector Oa rton > High Mounted Stop Lamp 199  INTERIOR FEATURES Logic Of Lamps . Vehicle Condi-

Reflector Oa rton > High Mounted Stop Lamp 199  INTERIOR FEATURES Logic Of Lamps . Vehicle Condi- Position S.n Functions . tion Lamp 1 DRL Ignition On ON OFF OFF LH & RH DRL activate in day time only with high intensity Rotate stalk to turn LH,RH DRL & CPL “ON” dur- 2 Position ‘ON’ the Parking OFF ON OFF ing night condition with low in- lamps. tensity 1) Left Turn Sig- nal — Move the ON” as per below When turn indicator is ON ei- FDI (Turn Indi- lever fully upward. variants. ther LH/ RH side, DRL of that 3 cator /Hazard) 2) Right Turn Sig- OFF OFF 1. Base - Flashing side Goes-OFF. DRL function nal - Move the 2.MID- Sequential is restored automatically post lever fully down- 3.High- Sequential Turn function ward 200  INTERIOR FEATURES Welcome And Good Bye Strategy . Key Co! Funaetiten Condition ion FDI Blink one time & Ani- . mation start from vehicle 1 Welcome Ani- Unlock Unlock key center to outboard side. mation on Pressed . rian Total time for animation is approx 3.5 Sec. FDI Blink

to outboard side. mation on Pressed . rian Total time for animation is approx 3.5 Sec. FDI Blink two time & Ani- F mation start from vehicle 2 Goodbye Ani- Lock Lock key outboard side. Total time mation Pressed renee for animation is ap- prox.3.5 Sec. 201  INTERIOR FEATURES ROOF GRAB HANDLE Grab handles are installed on the roof for all seats except for the driver’s seat. These help the passengers to position them- selves comfortably during the journey. 202 VEHICLE TELEMATICS Car is equipped with iRA - Connected car Technology which offers a host of features to the users through the “iRA - Connected car” Mobile Application (APP). The Vehicle is equipped with an Electronic Control unit which monitors & records the data from various vehicle systems like Transmission, Brake, Battery & other elec- trical systems. This data is then processed & used for providing the connected Car features. (Refer the app tour section of the mobile app.) The Connected Car module records the following

(Refer the app tour section of the mobile app.) The Connected Car module records the following information: Vehicle Telematics This includes the periodic transmission of data from other vehicle ECUs & Electronic systems like EMS, ABS, Air Bag, BMS, BCM etc. along with the geographi- cal location of the vehicle. Vehicle driving behavior This includes the location, speed, acceler- ation, trip details, charging etc. Event based recording This includes data generated during spe- cific events like vehicle collision, intrusion, un-authorized entry etc. The Data collected through Connected Car module is used by Tata Passenger Electric Mobility LTD. for various pur- poses, including, but not limited to, providing connected car features through mobile APP. * Evaluation of Vehicle performance. * Research & improvement of current & future vehicle designs. * Troubleshooting & diagnostics of the vehicle.  TATA MOTORS does not disclose the data recorded from your vehicle to any third party except:

TATA MOTORS does not disclose the data recorded from your vehicle to any third party except: + After obtaining a written consent from the Car Owner. « Upon request from Law enforcing agencies and regulatory bodies. + Used for research purpose without the Personal _ Verifiable information (anonymized). + Used as defence of TATA MOTORS in a Lawsuit. WIRELESS POWER CHARGING (IF EQUIPPED) WPC System Description Wireless Power Charging (is a conven- ience feature to charge the smart mobile phone using wireless charging technology, without a need to plugin wire in the device. The WPC system is powered with vehicle battery and the wireless power charging function is enabled with Ignition ON. Qi Compatible Term Qi 1.1.4: refers to certified product with the capability to transmit power of up to 15 W and detect metal and other impurities to prevent heating. @ NOTE The WPC would support only those smart phones which are Qi compatible. Please refer to the smart phone manual or connect to smart

smart phones which are Qi compatible. Please refer to the smart phone manual or connect to smart phone manufac- turer to check whether your smart phone supports Qi function. INTERIOR FEATURES Location of Wireless Charger Location: The location of the WPC in ve- hicle is in the Centre console area as below. Function of Each Component of WPC ¢ Wireless Power Charging (WPC) ECU: Generates power up to 15W and transfer power wirelessly by magnetic induction. ¢ Anti-skid Mat: Holds the position of smart phone placed on it against any jerk and acts a charging contact sur- face for the smart phone. 203  INTERIOR FEATURES ¢ Cooling FAN: It is provided to keep charging surface temperature within ambient temperature range. ¢ FAN Cover: It has ducts to direct FAN air on WPC ECU surface. ¢ Infotainment unit: It is status display unit to display the status of wireless power charger. Status symbol and text display is displayed on Infotainment unit. Functions of WPC System A. Charging function:

and text display is displayed on Infotainment unit. Functions of WPC System A. Charging function: Charge smart phone Following all the conditions are applicable in this feature to function correctly + — Ignition ON (vehicle OFF) + Vehicle ON * Smart phone placed in correct orienta- tion on the antiskid mat as below 204 WPC system detects the presence of phone and starts charging as per the Qi standard protocol. The charging status is updated and displayed on the head unit. B. Charging Status display function: 1. WPC system in standby mode - WPC system is waiting for phone or phone is not getting detected by the WPC system etc. Customer is advised to check the Qi compatibility/phone align- ment/any foreign object between the phone and mat. 2. Smart phone charging ON- Phone is charging 3. Metal object on the antiskid mat - Cus- tomer is advised to check any metal object on antiskid mat, if found, it is to be removed. 4. Smart phone battery is full/Charging completed 5. WPC ECU error

if found, it is to be removed. 4. Smart phone battery is full/Charging completed 5. WPC ECU error (“Error” condition indi- cates abnormal operating conditions internal system fault or fan stuck/jam) - Customer should realign the phone to centre to initiate charging. if problem is not resolved you are advised to visit the TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre. A Place phone properly and r object if any on charging pad metallic Metal Object Detected - Popup  Metal Object Detected -All Time Display Conditions to Charge Phone Properly 1. Keep the charging surface clear of any metal objects (coins, credit cards, smart cards, keys etc.) 2. Place the smart phone on the charging area marked for positioning the phone, for best results place the smart phone at the center of the charging pad. 3. Charge the smartphone without its cover or not a thick cover otherwise it would halt the wireless charging 4. Ensure that the phone is placed with display facing upwards and charging area touching the

4. Ensure that the phone is placed with display facing upwards and charging area touching the charging pad sur- face. 5. Turn ON the ignition to start the charg- ing. INFORMATION The wireless charging function is sup- ported to charge smart phones which are Qi compatible. Certain features may not function as not supported by the smart phone manufacturer and not a malfunction of the wireless charging. Wireless charging stops with Ignition OFF. Wireless charging stops when the smart phone is not completely in touch with the charging pad surface or not positioned correctly on charging pad INTERIOR FEATURES Do’s and Don’ts A\ WARNING Do’s: 1. 2. 1. If any metal object such as coin is lo- cated between wireless charging pad and phone back, the charging may get disrupted. Also, metal object may heat up. Please ensure that the phone is com- patible to the charging standard “Qi’. If any metal object found on charging pad remove it immediately. In case of water/Liquid spillage on charging pad,

found on charging pad remove it immediately. In case of water/Liquid spillage on charging pad, dry out the pad surface area properly & clean the ECU surface area by removing Anti-skid mat. Do not charge the smart phone until surface is completely dry. The smart phone may become hot while getting charged. Please be cau- tious about the high temperature while picking up the smartphone from the charging pad. 205  INTERIOR FEATURES 5. Wireless charger works on principle of magnetic induction, i.e. it converts electrical energy into magnetic energy to transfer energy from charging pad to phone. Please maintain safe distance from the charger most of the time as it may cause irritation to sensory organs or active implants if implemented in the body. Please consult medical specialist in case implant organ in the body of the user 6. Always turn ON the IGN while using this feature to avoid vehicle battery drain issue. 7. Always keep charging pad clean and dust free. 8. Vehicle AC may turn ON

battery drain issue. 7. Always keep charging pad clean and dust free. 8. Vehicle AC may turn ON during wire- less mobile charging for efficient use of this feature. Don’ts: 1. Do not use metal smart phone covers as it would halt the wireless charging function. The wireless charging may not function properly when there is a heavy & thick accessory cover on the smart phone. 206 Do not place smart phone up-side down on charging pad or do not miss aligned mobile phone on charging pad in such case smartphone charging will not happen. Do not keep any metal objects like coins, smart keys, electronic cards e.g. credit card, debit card, smartcard from the charging pad as it may disrupt the charging process and/or may damage the card. Do not keep any liquid (e.g. water, cold drink, and sanitizer), flammable object on antiskid mat. Do not cover the wireless charger with a cloth or other object while charging. It may heat up the device and reduce the charging efficiency. Do not disassemble,

while charging. It may heat up the device and reduce the charging efficiency. Do not disassemble, modify or remove the wireless charger & do not apply force or impact to the wireless. Information 1. Small noise may be heard when a smart phone which does not support wireless charging or any foreign object is placed on the charging pad. This small sound is due to the vehicle dis- cerning compatibility of the object placed on the charging pad. It does not affect the vehicle performance or the smartphone in any way. For certain cellular phones with their own protection, the wireless charging speed may decrease and the wireless changing may stop. When the interior temperature of the wireless charger rises above a set temperature, the wireless charging will cease to charging function. After the in- terior temperature drops below set threshold, the wireless charging func- tion will resume. When the mobile phone temperature rises above a set cut off threshold, the wireless charging will cease

the mobile phone temperature rises above a set cut off threshold, the wireless charging will cease to charg- ing function due to mobile phone stops demand power from wireless charger.  After the mobile phone temperature INTERIOR FEATURES stays ON until the phone is fully charged. drops below threshold, the wireless charging function will resume. Mobile temperature cut off threshold is much lower than WPC temperature cut off threshold. . When charging certain smart phones, the charging full message on head unit may not display when the smart phone is fully charged. It depends on smart phone manufacturer. . Smartphone of some manufacturers may display messages on weak cur- rent. This is due to particular charac- teristic of smartphone and does not imply a malfunction on wireless charger. Smaller smartphone users (ex. IPhone) may face intermittent charging issues due to its smaller size. (To avoid this, place the smartphone at center of the charging pad). Small mo- bile phones may not be

avoid this, place the smartphone at center of the charging pad). Small mo- bile phones may not be able to charge in every position on charging pad. . The wireless charger may not operate correctly when the vehicle is near a TV tower, electric power plant, gas station, large display, airport, or other facility that generates strong radio waves or electrical noise. WPC ECU in Standby Mode The infotainment system displays no warning message/ indication in this mode. This mode represents that the charging function is halted and not functional. The charging function could halt because of below reasons like: 1. Phone is not properly aligned with the charging pad or not positioned cor- rectly on pad wireless charger in standby mode 2. Phone is kept in upside down position wireless charger in standby mode 3. Phone is fully charged, and phone does not demand power wireless charger in standby mode Smart Phone Charging ON Mode When the smart phone is placed correctly and the conditions are

mode Smart Phone Charging ON Mode When the smart phone is placed correctly and the conditions are favorable to per- form the function of wireless charging, the infotainment system shows following mes- sages. After Popup, The charging symbol Top to para device Charging Mode ON — All Time Display 207  INTERIOR FEATURES Metal Object Detection Mode The charging gets interrupted/stopped due oO metal object placed on the charging pad. The infotainment head unit displays ollowing message. Check if there are any oreign objects between the smart phone and the charging pad, please clean if so. Smartphone shall be lifted for removing oreign objects and place it back on charg- ing pad. Metal Objects 208 + Delay in restarting of mobile charg- ing will be observed if foreign ob- jects are removed without lifting smart phone. + After removing the foreign objects, if smart phone do not resume charg- ing immediately lift the phone and place on charging pad to start the charging. + In case, Phone

ing immediately lift the phone and place on charging pad to start the charging. + In case, Phone overheat, remove and keep it after sometime. Smart Phone Battery is Full/ Charg- ing Completed The smart phone fully charged status is in- dicated on the infotainment display screen with following message. This Indication depends on phone profile whether it com- municate the battery full charge status to WPC System. Charging Complete Indication - All Time Display  WPC System Error Mode The error in the WPCF wireless power charger with FAN, system may cause the error message to get displayed on the in- fotainment screen. Some of errors that can occur while charg- ing which halt/interrupt charging can be covered with this indication are: WPCF internal fault which lead to per- manent failure in charger functionality WPC Fan Stuck / Jam is detected Coil Failure High Temperature of WPC device (70 Degree C) Memory failure A Charging may be interrupted due to error System Error Mode- Popup

(70 Degree C) Memory failure A Charging may be interrupted due to error System Error Mode- Popup INTERIOR FEATURES @ NOTE If error message is pop up on head unit then avoid charging the smart phone and visit the nearby service station. 209  STOWAGE AREA STORAGE COMPARTMENT 210 Oak woONnN Ss . Glove box . Driver side coin box . Utility pockets on front doors. . Utility pockets on rear doors Luggage Compartment Foldable arm rest/ Cup holder  GLOVE BOX Opening And Closing To open- Press the knob and open the glove box flap. To close - Lift glove box flap upward until it engages. Glove Box Illumination The glove box lamp illuminates when the glove box flap is opened. Make sure that glove box flap is closed while driving. Stowage Detail Following items can be stored in glove box. 1. Owner’s manual and other vehicle document 2. Chiller glow box 3. Pen holder 4. Visiting card STOWAGE AREA 5. Cup holder 6. Receipts etc. Cooling Facility (if equipped) On selected models glove box is provided

Cup holder 6. Receipts etc. Cooling Facility (if equipped) On selected models glove box is provided with a cooling facility. It cools the glove box only when the front A/C is ON. Shut OFF the vent by rotating the knob, whenever cooling is not required. 211  STOWAGE AREA DRIVER SIDE COIN BOX Stowage is provided on RH side of steer- ing wheel for Coin, mobile and wallet. 212 UTILITY POCKETS on FRONT DOORS UTILITY POCKETS on REAR DOORS Utility pockets are provided on front doors and it can be used to keep following items. 1. Suitable water bottle 2. Magazine / paper / books 3. Umbrella @ NOTE Remove the water from umbrella and fold it properly before storing it in um- brella holder. Utility pockets are available on rear doors and it can be used to keep following items. 1. Suitable water bottle 2. Magazine / paper / books  CENTER CONSOLE Stowage Below Arm Rest Stowage compartment is provided below the foldable arm rest for keeping cell phones, iPod’s, chargers etc. Tambour door Tambour

below the foldable arm rest for keeping cell phones, iPod’s, chargers etc. Tambour door Tambour door is provided on center con- sole. To access Tambour door, lift arm rest (1). Slide the shutter (2) to open and close the stowage area. STOWAGE AREA FOLDABLE ARM REST (if equipped) A foldable arm rest has been provided in the rear seat. It also has two-cup holders, which can be accessed by opening the cover. When not required, fold the armrest back into the seat. @ NOTE Remove all items and cups before fold- ing the cup holders. Use cups, contain- ers, bottles of right size and which have lids. The content could otherwise spill. 213  STOWAGE AREA LUGGAGE COMPARTMENT Store the luggage in luggage compart- ment. You can keep suitcase, bags, etc. A\ WARNING * Distribute the items of luggage as evenly as possible. + Position heavy loads towards rear seat and low down in the trunk as possible. * Do not allow occupants to travel in the luggage compartment. 214 + Do not place anything on luggage

Do not allow occupants to travel in the luggage compartment. 214 + Do not place anything on luggage cover as it could obstruct driver’s rear view. Also in case of an acci- dent or sudden braking, it could cause an injury to occupants. Storage Below Luggage Carpet Store the suitable luggage below the lug- gage carpet in luggage compartment. It can be used to keep small items. TATA MOTORS does not recommend use of any floor mats below driver foot, from occupant safety point of view. If floor mats are used by end user, for different reasons, they need to be secured in place with the provided floor carpet clips. This is recommended, as in nor-mal driving conditions, floor mats may slip forward and interfere with pedals. HOOKS (if equipped) Coat Hook Coat hangers are provided for rear pas- senger on both grab handles. + The coat hook is not designed to carry heavy objects or luggage items. + Do not hang hard, sharp-edged or fragile objects on the coat hook.  STOWAGE AREA Hook For Purse

+ Do not hang hard, sharp-edged or fragile objects on the coat hook.  STOWAGE AREA Hook For Purse Holder Collapsible Hook Carrier Hook In Luggage Compart- Collapsible hook is provided for hanging ment small carry bags etc. Carrier hook is provided for hanging small carry bags etc. Load up to 3 kg is permis- sible. Hooks for holding purse are provided on both B pillar. @ NOTE Do not use these hooks for securing luggage like using nets etc. in the boot. Do not use these hooks for securing luggage like using nets etc. 215  STOWAGE AREA LUGGAGE COMPARTMENT COVER Luggage cover is designed only for hiding the luggage compartment. NOTE Do not place anything on luggage cover as it could obstruct driver’s rear view. Also in case of an accident or sudden braking, it may cause an injury to the occupants. 216 ROOF RAIL Aesthetic Roof Rail Do not apply load or mount roof rack on roof rails.  EMERGENCY EQUIPMENT You should be familiar with the location of the emergency equipment provided in the

EQUIPMENT You should be familiar with the location of the emergency equipment provided in the vehicle and how to use it. Do a check of this equipment periodically and make sure that they are in proper working condition and stowed at their lo- cations. First Aid Kit The first aid kit is kept inside the glove box compartment. The kit contains items that can be used in case of minor injuries only. @ NOTE Examine contents of the first aid kit pe- riodically and replenish consumed or expired items. Tool Kit, Tow Hook, Jack And Spare Wheel Following parts are provided in the Bag as a Toolkit and kept in the Spare wheel. * Tow hook + Wheel Spanner * Jack Handle * Jack @ NOTE The jack should be used only to change wheels. It is important to read the in EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN structions in this section before attempt- ing to use the jack. Advance Warning Triangle An advance warning triangle is kept in the luggage compartment beside spare wheel. Use advance warning triangle to warn the

is kept in the luggage compartment beside spare wheel. Use advance warning triangle to warn the approaching traffic in case of vehicle break-down or during emergency, where your vehicle could become a potential traf- fic hazard. When you press the hazard warning switch, all turn signal lamps will start to 217  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN blink. Keep the warning triangle at an ap- SPARE WHEEL REMOVAL proximate distance of 50-150 m behind PROCESS your vehicle in the same lane of traffic. The reflecting side of the triangle should face the oncoming traffic and it should be free from any obstacles. Remove the advance ‘ Arter lifting, hold the carpet to access warning triangle carefully from the bag and the spare wheel. assemble. Refer instructions given onthe + Remove the Toolkit bag. bag. @ NOTE After using the warning triangle tie it firmly and keep it inside the bag to avoid rattling noise. * To access the spare wheel, lift the car- pet up. + To remove the spare wheel, unscrew and remove

* To access the spare wheel, lift the car- pet up. + To remove the spare wheel, unscrew and remove the retaining bolt. 218  IN CASE of FLAT TYRE * Reduce vehicle speed gradually, Avoid sudden steering movement or braking. + Pay attention to the traffic conditions as you do so. * Switch on the hazard warning lamps. * Stop the vehicle on solid, non-slippery and level ground, as far away as pos- sible from traffic. « Use the Jack on level, hard ground. Avoid changing the wheel on uphill and downhill slopes. Chocks the wheels, if the deflated wheel needs to be changed on slope / ghat area. * If possible, bring the front wheels into the straight-ahead position. * Secure the vehicle against rolling away. * Set the parking brake firmly and shift in to “R” (Reverse) gear on level ground and while vehicle is in downhill position. « When the vehicle is in uphill position, shift the gear in first gear. * Switch off the IGN. * Keep advance warning triangle at a suitable distance behind the

first gear. * Switch off the IGN. * Keep advance warning triangle at a suitable distance behind the vehicle as an indication of breakdown. * Close all the doors. AX WARNING If you drive with a flat tyre, there is a risk of the following hazards: + A flat tyre affects the ability to steer or brake the vehicle. * You could lose control of the vehi- cle. * Continued driving with a flat tyre will permanently damage the tyre and cause excessive heat buildup and possibly a fire. There is a risk of an accident. EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN Changing Flat Tyre Loosen the nuts (as indicated) on the wheel in diagonal sequence. Do not un- screw the nuts completely before raising he vehicle using the jack. Wheel Nut Removal 219  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN + The jack is designed only to raise and hold the vehicle for a short time while a wheel is being changed. It is not suited for performing mainte- nance work under the vehicle. + Use the jack on level, hard ground. Avoid changing the wheel on uphill and

under the vehicle. + Use the jack on level, hard ground. Avoid changing the wheel on uphill and downhill slopes. Chock the wheels, if the deflated wheel needs to be changed on slope / ghat area. * Before raising the vehicle, secure it from rolling away by applying the parking brake. * Donot use wooden blocks or similar objects as a jack underlay. * Do not place your hands and feet or lie under the raised vehicle when it is supported by a jack. + Do not start the vehicle when the vehicle is supported by the jack and never allow passengers to remain in the vehicle. 220 + Do not open or close a door or the tailgate when the vehicle is raised. Assemble the Jack handle and wheel spanner (as shown in fig.) Position the jack vertically and raise it by ‘urning the jack handle clockwise until the jack sits completely on the specified point and the base of the jack lies evenly on the ground. The jacking points iyl are indicated on sill cover of the vehicle (Refer jacking point location). Jack

jacking points iyl are indicated on sill cover of the vehicle (Refer jacking point location). Jack Up Point Location On Vehicle Jack point and location on vehicle [ARNING If you do not position the jack correctly at the appropriate jacking point of the vehicle, the jack could tip over with the vehicle raised. There is a risk of injury. Also jack can be damaged. Continue to raise the jack slowly and smoothly until the tyre clears the ground. Do not raise the vehicle more than neces- sary.  Remove wheel nuts with the help of wheel spanner and take out flat tyre. @ NOTE Do not place wheel nuts in sand or ona dirty surface. Do not apply oil or grease on it. Roll the spare wheel into position and align the holes in the wheel studs. Tighten each nut by hand until the wheel is securely seated on the hub. Lower the jack completely then tighten the wheel nuts diagonally in opposite se- quence one by one using wheel spanner. Press fit the wheel back (if equipped). Restore all the tools and jack

by one using wheel spanner. Press fit the wheel back (if equipped). Restore all the tools and jack at their re- spective locations. cover Place the flat tyre at spare wheel location * Do a check and correct the tyre pressure and wheel nuts tightness of the changed wheel at nearest au- thorised service station. Get the flat tyre repaired at the earliest * Do not jack the vehicle under rear axle. EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN PUNCTURE REPAIR KIT OPTION 1 (if equipped) Introduction A\ WARNING Compliance to below instructions is vital to ensure vehicle safety and personal safety. Non-compliance may result in serious injury or death. Damage to tire will affect vehicle handling and lead to loss of overall vehicle control. + The tire puncture repair kit seals most tire punctures to restore temporary mobility. * Recommended to use only for passen- ger car ground tubeless tires only and vehicle tire inflation pressure up to 300kPa (3 bar /43psi). * The system consists of a compressor and a sealant,

pressure up to 300kPa (3 bar /43psi). * The system consists of a compressor and a sealant, and serves to effectively and conveniently seal punctures in car tires caused, for example, by nails or similar foreign objects with a diameter of up to %" (6 mm). + Depending on the type and extent of 221  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN tire damage, some tires can only be partially sealed or not sealed at all. + Loss of tire pressure can affect vehicle handling and vehicle control. + Drive with caution and avoid making sudden steering or driving maneuvers, especially if the vehicle is heavily loaded or you are towing a trailer. * The system will provide you with an emergency temporary repair, enabling you to continue your journey to the next vehicle or tire dealer, or to drive a maximum distance of 200 Kms. * Do not exceed a maximum speed of 80 km/h. + Keep the Puncture repair Kit out of the reach of children. + If used for other than its intended pur- pose, the tire puncture repair Kit may cause

children. + If used for other than its intended pur- pose, the tire puncture repair Kit may cause severe accident or injury due to the fact that compressed air can act as an explosive or propellant. + Park your vehicle at the roadside so that you do not obstruct the flow of traf- fic and you are able to use the Punc- 222 ture repair Kit without being in danger. Engage the hand brake, even if you have parked on a level road, to ensure that the vehicle will not move. Do not attempt to remove foreign ob- jects like nails or screws penetrating the tire leave them as it is. Always ensure the vehicle is running during the tire puncture repair kit is in use, but not if the vehicle is in an en- closed or poorly ventilated area. Never leave the tire puncture repair kit unattended while in use. Do not keep the compressor operating for more than 10 minutes otherwise there is a risk of it overheating. Replace the sealant bottle with a new one before the expiry date is reached (see bottle label).

Replace the sealant bottle with a new one before the expiry date is reached (see bottle label). In case that the sealant is expired the functionality can- not be fully guaranteed. Only use orig- inal tire puncture repair kit bottles which are pressure resistant. ZX WARNING Do not use the Puncture repair Kit if the tire has already been damaged as a re- sult of being driven underinflated. Do not try to seal damage other than that located within the visible tread of the tire. Do not try to seal damage to the tire’s sidewall. A\ WARNING TPMS/iTPMS (if equipped) functionality to be checked by authorized TATA MO- TORS service center, if any error occurs due to the use of tire puncture repair kit.  Location In Vehicle In Luggage compartment Puncture Repair Kit Removal Process Remove the two Velcro as shown in figure and take out the puncture repair kit. EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN 223  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN Steps + aD 224  How To Proceed In The Event Of A Tire Puncture First pump the tire

AND BREAKDOWN Steps + aD 224  How To Proceed In The Event Of A Tire Puncture First pump the tire sealant and air into the tire (see Step 1).Immediately there-after, drive a short distance (3-10 km) in order to distribute the seal-ant in the tire. After that check the tire pressure and pump more air into the tire if necessary (see Step 2). Then you can proceed to drive with cau- tion for a maximum distance of 200 kms and at a maximum speed of 80 km/h. First pump the tire sealant and air into the tire (see Step 1).Immediately there-after, drive a short distance (3-10 km) in order to dis- tribute the seal-ant in the tire. After that check the tire pressure and pump more air into the tire if necessary (see Step 2). Then you can proceed to drive with cau- tion for a maximum distance of 200 kms and at a maximum speed of 80 km/h. Step 1 1. Take out the hose and power plug with cable out of the tyre puncture repair kit casing. Remove the white cap of T- type connector of Sealant Bottle.

the tyre puncture repair kit casing. Remove the white cap of T- type connector of Sealant Bottle. Connect the hose pipe of the compres- sor with T-type connector of sealant bottle. Ensure it is tightly Fitted. Avoid skin contact with the sealant which contains natural rubber latex. Do not open pressure “air release” valve. Use enclosed protective gloves. Install sealant Bottle by rotating clock- wise firmly against the bottle holding grooves on the compressor. Remove the white cap of the hose pipe of the sealant bottle. Insert power plug into the 12 volt power socket connection. Start the vehicle in idling (only if the ve- hicle is outdoors or in a well ventilated area). Press compressor switch to ON Impor- tant: When pumping in the sealant through the tyre valve, the pressure EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN may rise up to 500 KPa (5 bar. 73 psi) but will drop again after about 30 sec- onds 8. Inflate the tyre to an inflation pressure of minimum 180kPa, (1.8 bar/26 psi) and a maximum of

8. Inflate the tyre to an inflation pressure of minimum 180kPa, (1.8 bar/26 psi) and a maximum of 300kPa (3 bar/43 psi). 9. Remove the sealant bottle from the compressor grooves & tight the white caps on the hose pipe of the sealant bottle as well as T -type connector of the sealant bottle. This avoids unex- pected leakage of sealant residue and Lock it. 10.Make sure the puncture repair kit stored safely, but it’s still easily acces- sible, in the vehicle. 11. The compressor will be needed again when you check the tyre pressure. A\ WARNING Ensure pump should not be ON for more than 10 min as it may heat up and stop working. 225  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN AX WARNING Check the sidewall of the tyre prior to in- flation. If there are any cracks, bumps or similar damage, do not attempt to in- flate the tyre. Do not stand directly be- side the tyre while the compressor is pumping. Watch the sidewall of the tyre. If any cracks, bumps or similar damage appear, turn off the compressor and let

of the tyre. If any cracks, bumps or similar damage appear, turn off the compressor and let the air out by means of the pressure “air release” valve. In this case, do not con- tinue to use the tyre. @ NOTE When pumping in the sealant through the tyre valve, the pressure may rise up to 500 kPa (5 bar/73 psi) but will drop again after about 30 seconds. A\ WARNING Need to drain fluid from tyre before re- pair. Step 2 1. N Once a tyre inflation pressure of at least 180kPa (1.8 bar/26 psi) has been reached. Switch the compressor to “0” in order to read the actual tyre pres- sure from the pressure gauge. Pull the power plug from the 12 volt power socket connection. Slowly unscrew the hose from the tyre valve (sealant residues may escape from the hose) and put the protective cap back onto the hose. Leave the bottle in the holder. This avoids unexpected leakage of sealant residue. Make sure the Puncture repair Kit, the cap of the bottle and the orange cap are stored safely, but are still

the Puncture repair Kit, the cap of the bottle and the orange cap are stored safely, but are still easily ac- cessible, in the vehicle. The kit will be needed again when you check the tyre pressure. Start and drive for about 3-10 km so that the sealant can seal the damaged area. Do not drive for more than 10 min and not faster than 80 km/h. 8. Stop the vehicle after driving about 3- 10 km. Check and where necessary, adjust the pressure of the damaged tyre. Remove the protective cap from the end of the hose. Screw the hose firmly onto the valve of the damaged tyre. Read the tyre pressure from the pressure gauge. 9. Ifthe pressure of the sealant-filled tyre is 130kPa (1.3 bar/19 psi) or more, it must now be adjusted to the pressure specified for your vehicle (Refer tyre pressure sticker pasted on driver door side). 10. Deflate the tyre to the specified pres- sure using the pressure “air release” valve. Rest of the remaining sealant in the hose might leak out when opening pressure “air

release” valve. Rest of the remaining sealant in the hose might leak out when opening pressure “air release” valve or taking off the protective cap of the hose. Please use protective glove for safety purpose. 11. Once you have inflated the tyre to its correct tyre pressure, switch off the compressor, pull the plug out of the socket, unscrew the hose, fasten the  lyre valve cap and put back on the pro- ective cap of the hose. 12. Leave the bottle in the holder and store he Puncture repair Kit away safely in he vehicle trunk 13. Drive to the nearest workshop to get he damaged tyre repaired and if the lyre repair is not possible it should be removed from the car. Before the tyre is removed from the rim, inform your yre dealer that the tyre contains sealant. ZX WARNING If heavy vibrations, unsteady steering behavior or noises should occur while driving, reduce your speed and drive with caution to a place where it is safe for you to stop the vehicle. Recheck the tyre and its pressure. If

to a place where it is safe for you to stop the vehicle. Recheck the tyre and its pressure. If the tyre pres- sure is less than 130kPa (1.3bar, 19 psi) or if there are any visible cracks, bumps or similar damage on the side wall, do not continue to use the tyre. AX WARNING After using the sealant you may drive no faster than 80 km/h and the dam- aged tyre must be replaced as quickly as possible (within a maximum driving distance of 200 km. New sealant and replacement parts can be purchased from your authorized repair shop or dealer. Sealant bottles can be dis- posed with house-hold waste. For Normal Tire - Checking / Inflation Of Tire Pressure Follow The Below Process | * Remove the puncture repair kit from the luggage area. * Insert the power plug into the 12V power socket connection and start the vehicle in idling. * Remove the plug from the tire valve EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN and screw the inflator hose into the tire valve Press the switch to “I” present on the inflator and the

screw the inflator hose into the tire valve Press the switch to “I” present on the inflator and the motor will start to in- flate. + Asspecified pressure is achieved then switch to “0” present on the inflator and compressor will turn off. * Check the tire pressure again. If tire pressure is too high, deflate the tire to the specified pressure using the pres- sure “air release” valve. + Remove the inflator hose from the tire valve and plug the tire valve safely. * Remove the power plug 12V from the power socket and assemble it properly and keep the unit in luggage space again for next use. @ NOTE Remember that emergency road-side tire repair kits only provide temporary mobility. You should consult a tire spe- cialist for advice. 227  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN @ NOTE New sealant and replacement parts can be purchased from your authorized re- pair shop or dealer. Sealant bottles can be disposed with household waste. 228 PUNCTURE REPAIR KIT OPTION 2 (if equipped) Introduction WARNING

disposed with household waste. 228 PUNCTURE REPAIR KIT OPTION 2 (if equipped) Introduction WARNING Compliance to below instructions is vital to ensure vehicle safety and personal safety. Non-compliance may result in serious injury or death. Damage to tire will affect vehicle handling and lead to loss of overall vehicle control. «The tire puncture repair kit seals most tire punctures to restore temporary mobility. + Recommended to use only for passen- ger car ground tubeless tires only and vehicle tire inflation pressure up to 300kPa (3 bar /43psi). * The system consists of a compressor and a sealant, and serves to effectively and conveniently seal punctures in car tires caused, for example, by nails or similar foreign objects with a diameter of up to %”" (6 mm). + Depending on the type and extent of tire damage, some tires can only be partially sealed or not sealed at all. Loss of tire pressure can affect vehicle handling and vehicle control. Drive with caution and avoid making sudden

can affect vehicle handling and vehicle control. Drive with caution and avoid making sudden steering or driving maneuvers, especially if the vehicle is heavily loaded or you are towing a trailer. The system will provide you with an emergency temporary repair, enabling you to continue your journey to the next vehicle or tire dealer, or to drive a maximum distance of 200 Kms. Do not exceed a maximum speed of 80 km/h. Keep the Puncture repair Kit out of the reach of children. If used for other than its intended pur- pose, the tire puncture repair Kit may cause severe accident or injury due to the fact that compressed air can act as an explosive or propellant. Park your vehicle at the roadside so that you do not obstruct the flow of traf- fic and you are able to use the Punc-  ture repair Kit without being in danger. Engage the hand brake, even if you have parked on a level road, to ensure that the vehicle will not move. Do not attempt to remove foreign ob- jects like nails or screws

that the vehicle will not move. Do not attempt to remove foreign ob- jects like nails or screws penetrating the tire leave them as it is. Always ensure the vehicle is running during the tire puncture repair kit is in use, but not if the vehicle is in an en- closed or poorly ventilated area. Never leave the tire puncture repair kit unattended while in use. Do not keep the compressor operating for more than 10 minutes otherwise there is a risk of it overheating. Replace the sealant bottle with a new one before the expiry date is reached (see bottle label). In case that the sealant is expired the functionality can- not be fully guaranteed. Only use orig- inal tire puncture repair kit bottles which are pressure resistant. AX WARNING Do not use the Puncture repair Kit if the tire has already been damaged as a re- sult of being driven underinflated. Do not try to seal damage other than that located within the visible tread of the tire. Do not try to seal damage to the tire’s sidewall. A\

located within the visible tread of the tire. Do not try to seal damage to the tire’s sidewall. A\ WARNING TPMS/iTPMS (if equipped) functionality to be checked by authorized TATA MO- TORS service center, if any error occurs due to the use of tire puncture repair kit. EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN Location In Vehicle In Luggage compartment 229  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN Puncture Repair Kit Removal Process Remove the two Velcro as shown in figure and take out the puncture repair kit. 230  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN Step 1 1. Take out the hose and power plug with cable out of the puncture repair kit cas- ing. Remove the white cap of T-type connector of Sealant Bottle. Connect the hose pipe of the compres- sor with T-type connector of sealant bottle. Ensure it is tightly Fitted. Avoid skin contact with the sealant which contains natural rubber latex. Do not open pressure “air release” valve. Use enclosed protective gloves. Install sealant Bottle by rotating clock- wise

“air release” valve. Use enclosed protective gloves. Install sealant Bottle by rotating clock- wise firmly against the bottle holding grooves on the compressor. Remove the white cap of the hose pipe of the sealant bottle. Insert power plug into the 12 volt power socket connection. Start the vehicle in idling (only if the ve- hicle is outdoors or in a well ventilated area). Press compressor switch to ON Impor- tant: When pumping in the sealant through the tyre valve, the pressure 232 10. 11. may rise up to 500 KPa (5 bar. 73 psi) but will drop again after about 30 sec- onds Inflate the tyre to an inflation pressure of minimum 180kPa, (1.8 bar/26 psi) and a maximum of 300kPa (3 bar/43 psi). Remove the sealant bottle from the compressor grooves & tight the white caps on the hose pipe of the sealant bottle as well as T -type connector of the sealant bottle. This avoids unex- pected leakage of sealant residue and Lock it. Make sure the puncture repair kit stored safely, but it’s still

of sealant residue and Lock it. Make sure the puncture repair kit stored safely, but it’s still easily acces- sible, in the vehicle. The compressor will be needed again when you check the tyre pressure. A\ WARNING Ensure pump should not be ON for more than 10 min as it may heat up and stop working. A\ WARNING Check the sidewall of the tyre prior to in- flation. If there are any cracks, bumps or similar damage, do not attempt to in- flate the tyre. Do not stand directly be- side the tyre while the compressor is pumping. Watch the sidewall of the tyre. If any cracks, bumps or similar damage appear, turn off the compressor and let the air out by means of the pressure “air release” valve. In this case, do not con- tinue to use the tyre. NOTE When pumping in the sealant through the tyre valve, the pressure may rise up to 500 kPa (5 bar/73 psi) but will drop again after about 30 seconds.  ZX WARNING Need to drain fluid from tyre before re- pair. Step 2 1. Once a tyre inflation pressure of

WARNING Need to drain fluid from tyre before re- pair. Step 2 1. Once a tyre inflation pressure of at least 180kPa (1.8 bar/26 psi) has been reached. Switch the compressor to “O” in order to read the actual tyre pres- sure from the pressure gauge. Pull the power plug from the 12 volt power socket connection. Slowly unscrew the hose from the tyre valve (sealant residues may escape from the hose) and put the protective cap back onto the hose. Leave the bottle in the holder. This avoids unexpected leakage of sealant residue. Make sure the Puncture repair Kit, the cap of the bottle and the orange cap are stored safely, but are still easily ac- cessible, in the vehicle. The kit will be needed again when you check the tyre pressure. 7. 10. Start and drive for about 3-10 km so that the sealant can seal the damaged area. Do not drive for more than 10 min and not faster than 80 km/h. Stop the vehicle after driving about 3- 10 km. Check and where necessary, adjust the pressure of the damaged

vehicle after driving about 3- 10 km. Check and where necessary, adjust the pressure of the damaged tyre. Remove the protective cap from the end of the hose. Screw the hose firmly onto the valve of the damaged tyre. Read the tyre pressure from the pressure gauge. If the pressure of the sealant-filled tyre is 130kPa (1.3 bar/19 psi) or more, it must now be adjusted to the pressure specified for your vehicle (Refer tyre pressure sticker pasted on driver door side). Deflate the tyre to the specified pres- sure using the pressure “air release” valve. Rest of the remaining sealant in the hose might leak out when opening pressure “air release” valve or taking off the protective cap of the hose. Please use protective glove for safety purpose. 12. 13. AX WARNING EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN 11. Once you have inflated the tyre to its correct tyre pressure, switch off the compressor, pull the plug out of the socket, unscrew the hose, fasten the tyre valve cap and put back on the pro- tective cap of

of the socket, unscrew the hose, fasten the tyre valve cap and put back on the pro- tective cap of the hose. Leave the bottle in the holder and store the Puncture repair Kit away safely in the vehicle trunk Drive to the nearest workshop to get the damaged tyre repaired and if the tyre repair is not possible it should be removed from the car. Before the tyre is removed from the rim, inform your tyre dealer that the tyre contains sealant. If heavy vibrations, unsteady steering behavior or noises should occur while driving, reduce your speed and drive with caution to a place where it is safe for you to stop the vehicle. Recheck the tyre and its pressure. If the tyre pres- sure is less than 130kPa (1.3bar, 19 psi) or if there are any visible cracks, 233  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN bumps or similar damage on the side wall, do not continue to use the tyre. A\ WARNING After using the sealant you may drive no faster than 80 km/h and the dam- aged tyre must be replaced as quickly as possible

you may drive no faster than 80 km/h and the dam- aged tyre must be replaced as quickly as possible (within a maximum driving distance of 200 km. New sealant and replacement parts can be purchased from your authorized repair shop or dealer. Sealant bottles can be dis- posed with house-hold waste. For Normal Tire - Checking / Inflation Of Tire Pressure Follow The Below Process >> Compressor 234 Sealent Remove the puncture repair kit from he luggage area. Insert the power plug into the 12V power socket connection and start the vehicle in idling. Remove the plug from the tire valve and screw the inflator hose into the tire valve Press the switch to “I” present on the inflator and the motor will start to in- late. As specified pressure is achieved then switch to “0” present on the inflator and compressor will turn off. Check the tire pressure again. If tire pressure is too high, deflate the tire to the specified pressure using the pres- sure “air release” valve. Remove the inflator hose

tire to the specified pressure using the pres- sure “air release” valve. Remove the inflator hose from the tire valve and plug the tire valve safely. Remove the power plug 12V from the power socket and assemble it properly and keep the unit in luggage space again for next use. @ NOTE Remember that emergency road-side tire repair kits only provide temporary mobility. You should consult a tire spe- cialist for advice. @ NOTE New sealant and replacement parts can be purchased from your authorized re- pair shop or dealer. Sealant bottles can be disposed with household waste.  TOWING Guidelines (Do’s & Don’ts) When towing a break down vehicle, cer- tain precautions and procedures must be taken to prevent damage to the vehicle and/or components. Failure to use stan- dard towing precautionary measures when lifting or towing a break down vehicle could result in an unsafe operating condition. To correctly tow and prevent accidental damage to your vehicle, take help of a TATA MOTORS authorized

correctly tow and prevent accidental damage to your vehicle, take help of a TATA MOTORS authorized dealer or a commercial tow-truck service. @ NOTE Make sure that the parking brake is re- leased; vehicle is in neutral and steering wheel is unlocked. The power steering functions only when vehicle is running. Hence, during towing the steering ef- forts will be more. A\ WARNING * Do not get under your vehicle after it has been lifted by a tow truck. For towing a vehicle, the best way is to use a wrecker. Alternatively use a rigid tow bar. Switch ‘ON’ the hazard warning in- dicators of both the vehicles to warn other road users. Limit the speed to 20-30 kmph. In case of brake failure, use the parking brake to control the vehicle. Fasten the tow rope or tow bar at the towing eyes. Otherwise, the ve- hicle could be damaged. When towing, pull away slowly and smoothly. If the tractive power is too high, the vehicles could be dam- aged. EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN Tow Hook Fitment * Open the

is too high, the vehicles could be dam- aged. EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN Tow Hook Fitment * Open the tailgate and remove tow hook from the tool kit. * Open the tow hook cover provided on the front bumper by pressing it at the bottom part and simultaneously pulling it at the top (as shown in fig). * Screw in and tighten the tow hook in clockwise direction. + After towing, remove the towing hook and press fit the cover properly. + Place the towing hook in the vehicle tool kit. 235  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN Recommended Towing In case of break down, we recommend that your vehicle be towed with the driving wheels off the ground or place the vehicle on a flatbed truck as shown. AX WARNING * Do not tow your vehicle with the front wheels on the ground or four wheels on the ground (forward or backward), as this may cause seri- ous damage to the transmission. + When towing with the rear wheels on the ground or on towing dollies, place the ignition switch in the ‘ACC’ or ‘ON’ position, and secure

ground or on towing dollies, place the ignition switch in the ‘ACC’ or ‘ON’ position, and secure the steering wheel in the straight-ahead position with a rope or similar de- vice. 236 FUSES Your vehicle has fuse boxes at three loca- tions. The vehicles electrical circuits have fuses to protect the wiring from short circuits or sustained overload. 1. Battery Mounted Fuse Box. 2. Motor Compartment Fuse Box. 3. Cabin Compartment Fuse Box. Checking And Replacing Fuses If any electrical unit in your vehicle is not functioning, check the fuses first.  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN Please follow the steps below that will @ NOTE Battery Mounted Fuse Box guide you to check and replace them. + Apply parking brake Always make sure that the spare fuses A - . are added. * Switch off all electrical accessories. * Turn the ignition key to the ‘LOCK’ po- + Make sure that all other fuses are sition. pressed firmly in position. * In the fuse box, identify the defective + If a newly inserted fuse also blows,

in position. * In the fuse box, identify the defective + If a newly inserted fuse also blows, fuse from its melted wire. have the cause traced and rectified at nearest TATA MOTORS Authorized Dealer/Service Center immediately. Fs/ A\ WARNING ca i "| + If you manipulate or bridge a faulty ~ J 1 fuse or if you replace it with a fuse d with higher amperage, the electric 200A OK BLOWN cables could be overloaded. This could result in a fire. There is a risk BATT O OND O * tkemove tne gerective ruse py tuse of an accident and injury. puller”. The fuse puller and spare fuses + Always replace faulty fuses with the CIRCUIT DIAGRAM are provided in the motor compartment specified new fuses having the cor- fuse box. rect amperage. Fi Rat motor compartment fuse box Function use xal- ing fuses of same rating, which you can FO1 200A * Defective fuses must be replaced with STARTER . MOTOR recognize by color and value. 237  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN AX WARNING If fuse box cover is removed for any reason,

and value. 237  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN AX WARNING If fuse box cover is removed for any reason, it should be refitted properly in its original position. Motor Compartment Fuse Box @ NOTE The fuse box layout is for reference pur- pose only. Please refer the sticker pro- vided inside the fuse box cover. 238  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN Fuses - Motor Compartment NOTE - (J-iF equipreD O] >< JO Note: Please refer fuse box sticker on vehicle for more clarity. 239  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN Under Bonnet Fuse Details Fuse No. Ratings (AMP) Fuse Type Description EF1 60A JCASE SUPPLY CABIN FUSE BOX-1 EF2 40A JCASE IVBAC ECU EF3 60A JCASE IVBA MOTOR EF4 40A JCASE COOLING FAN FAST EF5 40A JCASE EV POWERTRAIN EF6 25A JCASE COOLING FAN SLOW EF7 60A JCASE SUPPLY CABIN FUSE BOX-2 EF8 - JCASE SPARE EF9 60A JCASE IVBAC MOTOR EF10 40A JCASE IGN LOADS EF11 60A JCASE MANDO EPAS EF12 5A MINI VCU KP SUPPLY_BATT EF13 30A MINI MAIN RELAY EF14 10A MINI AVAS EF15 20A MINI HEAD LAMP LOW EF16 15A MINI HORN EF17 5A MINI

30A MINI MAIN RELAY EF14 10A MINI AVAS EF15 20A MINI HEAD LAMP LOW EF16 15A MINI HORN EF17 5A MINI CPL EF18 5A MINI MONOSTABLE SHIFTER EF19 10A MINI REVERSE LAMP EF20 10A MINI BMS POWER _BATT 240  Under Bonnet Fuse Details EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN Fuse No. Ratings (AMP) Fuse Type Description EF21 5A MINI BRAKE SW EF22 10A MINI HV BATTERY COOLING PUMP_BATT EF23 5A MINI CHILLER SOENOID EF24 - MINI SPARE EF25 10A MINI RH HEAD LAMP & HEAD LAMP LEVELING EF26 5A MINI E-DRIVE BATT EF27 10A MINI OBD_BATT EF28 5A MINI EVAPORATOR SOLENOID EF29 10A MINI TRACTION COOLANT PUMP EF38 30A MINI VCU EF39 5A MINI PT RELAY CONTROL EF40 10A MINI 3 IN 1 COMBO EF41 5A MINI 3 IN 1 COMBO EF42 5A MINI IVBAC ECU EF43 20A MINI FRONT WIPER MOTOR EF44 5A MINI COMPRESSOR _BATT EF45 10A MINI REAR WIPER MOTOR EF46 10A MINI LH HEAD LAMP & HEAD LAMP LEVELING 241  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN Relay No. Function Fuse Rating R1 - SPARE R2 - SPARE R3 HV BATT KP ALIVE RELAY 20A R4 VCU MAIN RELAY 40A R5 COOLING FAN SLOW 20A R6

- SPARE R2 - SPARE R3 HV BATT KP ALIVE RELAY 20A R4 VCU MAIN RELAY 40A R5 COOLING FAN SLOW 20A R6 COOLING FAN FAST1 40A R7 INT WIPE (ON/OFF) 20A R8 COOLING PUMP_BATT 20A R9 SPARE - R10 COOLING FAN FAST2 40A R11 SPARE - R12 E-DRIVE BATTERY SUPPLY RLY 20A R13 HEAD LAMP LOW & HIGH BEAM 20A R14 SPARE - R15 REAR WIPER MOTOR 20A R16 HORN 20A R17 IGNITION 40A R18 FRONT WIPER MOTOR SPEED 20A R19 REVERSE LAMP RELAY 20A 242  Accident Disconnect Fuse In case of an accident, to disconnect the high voltage battery from the rest of the high voltage electrical components, remove the cover of the fuse and pull out the accident disconnect fuse. The fuse can be identified with a yellow label. ZX WARNING In case of Accident/Emergency/Crash, the rescuer or first emergency respon- der may be prone to Electric Hazard. To avoid the Electric hazard, the Power supply to Battery Management System must be disconnected. Follow the steps below to disconnect the power supply from the battery manage- ment system: *

Follow the steps below to disconnect the power supply from the battery manage- ment system: * Open the fuse box cover located under the bonnet behind the 12V battery without touching any other High Volt- age Components. + Remove the Accident Disconnect 10A fuse. The fuse puller and spare fuses are provided in the motor compartment fuse box * The 10A fuse labelled in yellow color as shown in image. EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN AX WARNING lf Fuse box cover is removed for any reason, it should be refitted properly at its original position. @ NOTE The fuse box layout is for reference pur- pose only. Please refer the sticker pro- vided inside the fuse box cover. Cabin Compartment Fuse Box Cover Removal Procedure Fuse box is located inside the cover below 243  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN steering column. To access the fuse box, remove cover as per procedure given below. 1. Fuse box cover is mounted on dash board with the help of lugs at the top and bottom of the cover from inside. 2. To remove the

dash board with the help of lugs at the top and bottom of the cover from inside. 2. To remove the cover, gently pull the cover from upper side that the lugs get disengaged. Re-fitment Procedure Align bottom lugs and push upper part with respective slots on dash board and press the cover firmly. 244 Cabin compartment fuse box  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN Gaddinoa 41] ‘SALON 245 Fuses - Cabin Compartment 3Y3H dqoo yo no YAISAL Aw SILSONOVIC (st19 AOUVHD| vst vs vst] vor] vs] Pe a vor vot | vor P24] Issartzaanl| YS =a gle lez (aoounns]] voz} olBnl 2 £ ar Tit 2/28|_5 Elal|2/& logs vs 2 BB) <8 > 2/2 LHOIDIOvE | S[ES|E2| 5 2/5||2/2 7 S/Bs/Ee| 2/212) 3) |S ]s ez Bl & [e2|22| € | 81s 13.) zea] - ota | sta] £ta | ta [Sta | pT] Eta | ZT VSITD NSTTD DSTID > 2 & (e) g fe} & (voz) tru} | (woz) eu | (voz) eu | | (voz) cu ||(voz) ore & Ana and Ant ATE am 6a] ATddns Nor | vor] o FttHor| =| x901NN || YOLOW 3901 Hc ouuINoI ne) yova 1a) |guvorva| | 149 ea] svaa ws = ‘1STTD ASTID aSTTD g ca] ovauiv vor c

3901 Hc ouuINoI ne) yova 1a) |guvorva| | 149 ea] svaa ws = ‘1STTD ASTID aSTTD g ca] ovauiv vor c YOLOW [o} lod] wamora ‘| O8 L g sa] e#viog vo7| 6 va] z#W9E voe a faved LaxD0S| 3 Ea raanoa vor] a (voz) stu ® ATE za] d40/20¥ vst] g NOISYANI 2 ‘TWNOIS aShED) a MM Ry (voz) ot [ 7 (vor) zu 2 ATL Ava o mun _| odd | wamora Ta T# Wod [VOR] a 7a/TaStt9 STTD WSTTD $8 a g is} Zz  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN Cabin Compartment Fuse Box Details Ratings (AMP) Fuse Type Description F1 20A FAST BLOW BCM #1 F2 15A FAST BLOW ACC BATTERY/OBD F3 10A FAST BLOW REAR USB TYPE C F4 20A FAST BLOW BCM #2 FS 20A FAST BLOW BCM#3 F6 30A FAST BLOW BLOWER F7 10A FAST BLOW RESTRAINTS CONTROL MODULE AIRBAG F8 5A FAST BLOW EPAS FQ 10A FAST BLOW IGNITION F10 5A FAST BLOW MIRROR ADJUSTMENT MOTOR F11 15A FAST BLOW EPAS F12 5A FAST BLOW IGNITION F13 10A FAST BLOW PEPS ECU1-, PEPS ECU2-, ESCL- F14 15A FAST BLOW CDL ACTUATOR F15 10A FAST BLOW CLUSTER F16 10A FAST BLOW TAILGATE RELEASE MOTOR F17 5A FAST BLOW PDC IGN

F15 10A FAST BLOW CLUSTER F16 10A FAST BLOW TAILGATE RELEASE MOTOR F17 5A FAST BLOW PDC IGN /TELEMATICS/DUST SENSOR F18 10A FAST BLOW AUTOMATIC CONTROL - HVAC ECU F19 25A FAST BLOW HEATED REAR SCREEN F20 10A FAST BLOW PEPS ECU 246  Fuse No Ratings (AMP) EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN Cabin Compartment Fuse Box Details Fuse Type Description FAST BLOW TELEMATIC F22 5A FAST BLOW INFOTAINMENT CONTROL MODULE 10A FAST USB CHARGER A+C 45W. F23 5A FAST BLOW FAST USB CHARGER A+C 15W. 5A AFTER MARKET CONNECTION F24 5A FAST BLOW TELEMATICS F25 25A FAST BLOW DRIVER REGULATOR MOTOR F26 5A FAST BLOW BCM, INFOTAINMENT DISPLAY 10.25”, DISOCIATED DISPLAY FO7 20A FAST BLOW INFOTAINMENT CONTROL MODULE 7” , AFTER MARKET CON- NECTION F27A 30A FAST BLOW INFOTAINMENT CONTROL MODULE 10.25” F28 5A FAST BLOW WIRELESS CHARGER F29 20A FAST BLOW SUNROOF F30 5A FAST BLOW BACKLIGHT ILLUMINATION 247  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN Cabin Compartment Fuse Box Relay Details Relay No. Rating (AMP) Relay Type Load Passed (A) R1 40A

Cabin Compartment Fuse Box Relay Details Relay No. Rating (AMP) Relay Type Load Passed (A) R1 40A MINI N/O ACC RELAY R2 40A MINI N/O BLOWER R3 - MINI SPARE R4 - MINI SPARE R5 - MICRO N/O SPARE R6 20A MICRO N/O HEATED REAR WINDOW R7 20A MICRO C/O CDL LOCK R8& 20A MICRO C/O CDL UNLOCK RQ 20A MICRO N/O TAILGATE RELEASE MOTOR R10 20A MICRO N/O IGNITION RELAY R11 20A MICRO BACKLIGHT ILLUMINATION REGISTRATION PLATE R12 - MICRO SPARE R13 20A MICRO N/O WW SIGNAL INVERSION RELAY R14 - MICRO SPARE R15 - MICRO SPARE R16 - MICRO SPARE R17 - MICRO SPARE R18 - MICRO SPARE 248  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN If An Accident Occurs... If your vehicle is drivable, park your ve- hicle off the road; rotate the gear se- lector knob to “N” and apply the parking brake. If not drivable do not try to start the ve- hicle. Rotate the gear selector knob to N and apply the parking brake. Roll down the windows and open the door locks if possible. If the ‘Ready’ message does not come in the instru- ment cluster, do not

door locks if possible. If the ‘Ready’ message does not come in the instru- ment cluster, do not try to switch ON he supply by pressing the Start/Stop button. If there is no electrical supply, at-least ry to unlock single door manually. If the vehicle ‘Ready’ message flashes in the instrument cluster, press the Start/Stop button to turn off the supply, and ensure ‘Ready’ message goes off o verify the high-voltage system is dis- connected. De-latch the bonnet from inside the cabin by pulling the lever to open it. If the lever is not reachable, do not spend time to de-latch the bonnet. Come out of the vehicle and move the smart key at least 2 meters away from the vehicle to avoid any accidental restart or activation of high voltage systems. Try to evacuate the occupants from in- side of the vehicle. Secure vehicle by barricading it, with- out touching the vehicle. Inform the TATA MOTORS On-Road- As-sistance immediately. Do not touch the vehicle. Keep a safe distance. WARNING Do not

On-Road- As-sistance immediately. Do not touch the vehicle. Keep a safe distance. WARNING Do not touch electric wires that may become exposed from inside or out- side the vehicle, high voltage elec- tric wires (orange), connectors and any exposed electric components and devices. Doing so may result in electric shock and lead to injuries or even death. If you observe any coolant leaks and rupture in refrigerant lines, do not drive the vehicle and contact TATA MOTORS On- Road Assistance. If the vehicle switches off after an accident, come out of the vehicle immediately without touching any metal parts. Leaks or damage to the Li-ion bat- tery may result in a fire. If you dis- cover them, contact emergency services immediately. Never touch the fluid leaked inside or outside the vehicle. If the fluid contacts with your skin or eyes, wash it off imme- diately with a large amount of water or saline solution and receive imme- diate medical attention to help avoid serious injury. If water

or saline solution and receive imme- diate medical attention to help avoid serious injury. If water enters inside the vehicle: If your vehicle is flooded or if water has soaked the carpets, you should not try to start the vehicle. Never touch the high voltage cables, con- nectors and package modules, be 249  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN cause an electric shock may occur causing injury or death. (High volt- age components are orange in colour) * Ifa submersion in water occurs: Do not touch your vehicle, if the vehicle has been submerged in water. The high voltage battery may cause shock or may catch fire. Immedi- ately contact the authorities and ad- vise them of the condition of your vehicle and that an electric vehicle is involved. If a small scale fire occurs, use a fire ex- tinguisher (C, ABC, BC) that is meant for electrical fires. If it is impossible to extin- guish the fire in the early stage, remain a safe distance from the vehicle and imme- diately call the authorities. Also,

early stage, remain a safe distance from the vehicle and imme- diately call the authorities. Also, advise them that an electric vehicle is involved. When approaching a high voltage vehicle in a situation of fire, rescue or recovery, follow the standard rule: + Always assume the high-voltage sys- tem is live in the vehicle. 250 Only High Voltage System trained per- sonnel with necessary high voltage PPEs (hand gloves, electrical safety shoes, etc.,) should access and analyse the EV after all occupants are safely evacuated. Emergency Shut Off System When vehicle detects any fault in HV sys- tem, it activates the emergency shut off for safety purpose. Even if the gear knob is in Drive mode, the system may shut-off sud- denly. In this case, contact the nearest TATA MOTORS authorised EV dealer to rectify the issue. In Case Of Emergency If The EV Stalls At A Crossroad Or Crossing If the vehicle stalls at a crossroad or cross- ing, rotate the rotary knob to N (Neutral) position and then push

stalls at a crossroad or cross- ing, rotate the rotary knob to N (Neutral) position and then push the vehicle to a safe place. If The Vehicle Stalls While Driving * Reduce your speed gradually, keeping a straight line. Move cautiously off the road to a safe place. * Turn on the hazard lamps. * Try to start the vehicle again. If your vehicle will not start, contact an author- ized TATA MOTORS EV dealer or seek other qualified assistance.  Since this vehicle runs on electric power, it generates little sound. Be aware of your driving environment and drive safely. After you park the vehicle or while you are waiting at a traffic light, check whether there are kids or obstacles around the vehicle. Check if there is something behind the vehicle when driving in reverse. Pedestrians may not hear the sound of the vehicle. EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN 251  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN BULB SPECIFICATIONS Sn. Description Rating Type Qty. 1 REAR BOOT LAMP 12V, 5W wsw 1 2 GLOVE BOX LAMP 12V, 5W wsw 1 252  24

Description Rating Type Qty. 1 REAR BOOT LAMP 12V, 5W wsw 1 2 GLOVE BOX LAMP 12V, 5W wsw 1 252  24 X 7 ROAD ASSISTANCE Dear Customer, It is our responsibility and our endeavor to ensure that you have our complete service backup if ever, wherever and whenever you need the same. When you have a road network that spans wide area, the probability of a breakdown happening within hailing distance of a TATA MOTORS Authorized Workshop is very low. It is precisely for this reason, we have tied up with TVS AA, who will provide break- down assistance including towing to the nearest TATA MOTORS Authorized Work- shop through their Authorized Service Providers (ASP). The 24X7 On Road Assistance Program shall be automatically available to your ve- hicle for the duration of Warranty period. The program shall also be available, if you avail the same post warranty. Response Time ** for the On Road As- sistance Program Within City Limits On State or Na- tional Highways Ghat Roads and other places States

Program Within City Limits On State or Na- tional Highways Ghat Roads and other places States of North- East, J&K and Hi- machal 60 minutes 90 minutes 120 minutes +/- Same Day (Within 24 Hrs) ** (The response time will depend on the location, terrain, traffic density and the time of the day.) Standard Procedure When Calling For On Road Assistance In Case Of A Breakdown * Dial the toll free help line number — 1800 209 8282 + B-Call can be triggered by pressing B- Call switch provided in the vehicle. + E-Call can be triggered by pressing E- Call switch provided in the vehicle. * E-Call will be automatically triggered if air bag is deployed in the event of ac- EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN cident. + Identify your vehicle with the Vehicle chassis number that is available in the Owner’s Manual. + Explain your exact location with land- marks and tell us about the problem you face with the vehicle. + Park your vehicle on the edge of the road, open the bonnet and put on the hazard warning signal. +

Park your vehicle on the edge of the road, open the bonnet and put on the hazard warning signal. + Place the advance warning triangle supplied with the vehicle approx. 3 m from the vehicle in the direction of on- coming traffic. Coverage Under 24 X 7 On Road As- sistance Program |. The 24x7 On Road Assistance Pro- gram Service covers the following services on your vehicle during warranty period. + Wheel change through spare wheel. * Charging cost will be chargeable at actual cost. * Re-opening the vehicle in cases of key lock out. 253  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN + Rectification of electrical problems re- lated to battery, fuses etc. * On spot repairs for complaints re- pairable at site. + Vehicle to vehicle towing or winching & towing for non-accident cases up to the nearest TATA MOTORS authorized workshop. Towing charges at actual cost beyond the same to be paid to the ASP in cash. (Any ferry or toll charges levied in relation to the vehicle being towed to be paid by the customers in

ferry or toll charges levied in relation to the vehicle being towed to be paid by the customers in actuals in cash). For accident cases, towing charges to be borne by the cus- tomer. + In the event of major accident ambu- lance assistance will be provided if needed. 254 Il. The 24x7 On Road Assistance Pro- gram coverage on availing the 24X7 pol- icy, post warranty is up to maximum of 6 instance of assistance in one year for both the plans Basic and Premium. In the pre- mium plan, this includes 2 instances of towing up to the nearest TATA MOTORS authorized workshop. Exclusions 24 X 7 On Road Assistance Program does not apply to * Cost of parts consumables and labor for such repairs not covered under warranty*. These charges are to be settled with ASP in cash. * Toll or ferry charges paid by ASP in reaching to the breakdown site to be settled with ASP in actuals in cash. * Cases involving fire, theft, vandalism, riots, lightening, earth-quake, wind- storm, hail, tsunami, unusual weather

fire, theft, vandalism, riots, lightening, earth-quake, wind- storm, hail, tsunami, unusual weather conditions, other acts of God, flood, etc. + Vehicles that are unattended, un-reg- istered, impounded or abandoned. * Breakdown/defects caused by misuse, abuse, negligence, alterations or mod- ifications made to the vehicle. * Lack of maintenance as per the main- tenance schedule as detailed in the owner’s manual. * Cases involving racing, rallies, vehicle testing or practice for such events.  Disclaimer The Service is not available in Lak- shadweep. **The reach time is indica- tive & the actual reach time will be conveyed by the call center at the time of breakdown call. The reach time can vary depending on the traffic density & time of the day. The reach time indicated does not ac- count for delays due to but not limited to acts of God, laws, rules & regula- tions for time being in force, orders of statutory or Govt. authorities, industrial disputes, inclement weather, heavy down

force, orders of statutory or Govt. authorities, industrial disputes, inclement weather, heavy down pour, floods, storms, natural calamities, road blocks due to acci- dents, general strife and law & order conditions viz. fire, arson, riots, strikes, terrorist attacks, war etc. “ On spot repairs at breakdown site shall depend on nature of complaints & will be as per the discretion of the ASP. * The decision for free of charge re- pairs will be as per the warranty policy & procedures of TATA PASSENGER ELECTRIC MOBILTY LTD. and as per the interpretation of the same by ASP. You will be duly informed by the ASP & call center for the change appli-cable if any. + All charges wherever applicable need to be settled directly with the ASP. Exclusion oF Liabilities * It is understood that TATA MOTORS shall be under no liability whatsoever in respect of any loss or damage aris- ing directly or indirectly out of any delay in or non-delivery of, defect/defi- ciency in service/parts provided by ASP.

out of any delay in or non-delivery of, defect/defi- ciency in service/parts provided by ASP. * Incase vehicle cannot be repaired on- site, customers are advised to use the towing facility for taking their vehicle to the nearest TATA MOTORS authorized workshop only. In no condition will the vehicle be towed to any unauthorized workshop. TATA MOTORS will not be responsible for any repairs carried out in such unauthorized workshop. * Customer are advised to take acknowl- edgment from the ASP for the list of ac- EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN cessories/extra fittings and other be- longings in the vehicle as well as the current condition related to dents/scratches breakages of parts/fit- ments of the vehicle at the time of ASP taking possession of the vehicle & to verify these items when delivery is taken back by them, Claim for loss of or damage to items, if any should be taken up with ASP directly. TATA MO- TORS shall not be responsible for any such claims, damages/loss or any de- ficiency of

TATA MO- TORS shall not be responsible for any such claims, damages/loss or any de- ficiency of service of the ASP. Vehicles will be handled, repaired & towed as per the customer's risk & TATA MOTORS shall not be liable for any damages / claims as a result of the same Services entitled to the customers can be refused or cancelled on account of abusive behavior, fraudulent represen- tation, malicious intent and refusal to pay the charges for any charges re- lated services and spare parts during service or on previous occasions on part of the customer. 255  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN I-call and E-call Services (if equipped) 1. 3. 4. On site repairs may be temporary in nature. The completion of repairs does not certify the road worthiness of the vehicle. The customer is advised to en- sure temporary repairs carried out on- site is followed by permanent repairs at a TATA MOTORS Authorised Dealer/Service Center at the earliest. Terms and conditions and service cov- erage, exclusions etc. are

Center at the earliest. Terms and conditions and service cov- erage, exclusions etc. are subject to change without notice. Emergency hard switch button is pres- ent on roof console to operate the E- Call / B-Call feature Emergency call gets triggered when user presses the hard switch button. Also, in case of vehicle crash, E- call automatically triggers. On pressing emergency call button, a popup message appears on HU stat- ing: “Dialing emergency number in 5 seconds” & have a cancel button on the message box, so that user can cancel connecting to emergency num- ber in case it was done unknowingly. 256 5. In case of breakdown B-call can be triggered by pressing B-call switch. if E-call doesn’t get connected then emergency services are triggered im- mediately. Once call is connected, user can cancel the call using hard press button. Response Time ** For The E-call (road Side Assistance Program) aoe Nonmu- Municipal . Area nicipal Area Reach time for ; medical assis-| 45 Minutes 60 Min-

aoe Nonmu- Municipal . Area nicipal Area Reach time for ; medical assis-| 45 Minutes 60 Min- utes tance Reach time for 60 Min. towing assis-| 45 Minutes utes tance Reach time for : vehicle cus-| 45 Minutes | 6° Min- utes tody Response Time ** For The B-call (road Side Assistance Program) Within City Limits |60 minutes On State or Na- tional Highways Ghat Roads and other places States of North East, J&K and Himachal ** The response time will depend on the location, terrain, traffic density and the time of the day. List oF Cities For Emergency Support - E Call 45 minutes 120 minutes +/- Same Day (Within 24 Hrs.) Agra Mangalore Ahmedabad Mumbai Bengaluru Nagpur Bhopal Panaji Bhubaneshwar Patna Chandigarh Pune Chennai Ranchi Cochin Surat  List oF Cities For Emergency Support - E Call Coimbatore Trivandrum Dehradun Visakhapatnam Guru gram Meerut Jodhpur Mathura Jalandhar Delhi Karnal Guwahati Vadodara Hyderabad Nashik Indore Thrissur Jaipur Kanpur Kolkata Vijayawada Kozhikode Rajkot

Vadodara Hyderabad Nashik Indore Thrissur Jaipur Kanpur Kolkata Vijayawada Kozhikode Rajkot Lucknow Raipur Ludhiana Mysore Madurai Haridwar Noida Margao Note: We may add cities going forward EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN 257  TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS LUBRICANT SPECIFICATIONS Use following genuine fluids, coolants and lubricants recommended for optimum performance of your vehicle. Item Specification Company Brand Qty. Coolant (Pre- . SUNSTAR CCI |Golden C LLC 2200NP mixed) (Antifreeze | Class II/JIS K2234 olgen MTulser BCS 4.6L agent +Soft water |TATASS7700S1 1ocL TATA MOTORS GENUINE COOLANT KOOL TCS 3.5L 50:50 ratio) PLUS Synthetic Transaxle Oil SAE 75W90 Castrol Castrol 0.9L BOT130M PETRONAS TATA MOTORS PETRONAS Genuine Brake Oil DOT 4S Brake Fluid SAE J 1703, DOT 4 Sunstar CCI Golden Cruiser TATA Genuine 0.9L Brake Fluid (DOT4) CASTROL Optional - CASTROL- Universal Brake Fluid DOT 4 Refrigerant R-134a — — 580420 gms or Compressor | evcseEA/FVC68D Idemitsu Idemitsu 150410 ml Sunroof Grease

R-134a — — 580420 gms or Compressor | evcseEA/FVC68D Idemitsu Idemitsu 150410 ml Sunroof Grease MULTEMP 20194 — — As required 258  VEHICLE SPECIFICATIONS TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS Parameter Nexon EV Powertrain Battery Option | - 40.5 kWh Li-ion Option II - 30 kWh Li-ion Electric motor Permanent magnet synchronous motor Nominal voltage Option | - 332.8 V Option II - 320 V Maximum power, kW Option | - 105 kw Option II - 95kW Maximum torque, Nm 215 Nm Transaxle Model and Type Electric Vehicle Transaxle No. Of gears Single speed, 1 Forward Drive + 1 Reverse Drive Steering Type Column Mounted Electric Power Assisted Steering System Brakes Brakes Front (Disc); Rear (Disc) Parking brake Automatic Parking Brake Suspension Front Double acting telescopic type. Hydraulic; gas Filled. Rear Double acting telescopic type. Hydraulic; gas Filled. 259  TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS Wheels & Tyre Tyres 215/60 R16 95H (Radial / Tubeless / Normal) - Option |: 6J x 16 steel wheel Wheel rims Option Il: 6.53 x 16

95H (Radial / Tubeless / Normal) - Option |: 6J x 16 steel wheel Wheel rims Option Il: 6.53 x 16 Alloy wheel Cab / Body Type Steel Monocoque Body Electrical System System voltage 12 Volts Auxiliary battery 12V DIN 40 Ah Main Chassis Dimension (in mm) Wheel base, mm 2498 Track front, mm 1540 Track rear, mm 1530 Overall length, mm 3995 Overall height, mm 1625 (unladen) Max. Width, mm 1802 Ground clearance, mm (laden) 155 (laden) Performance Max. Speed Ontion I 20 Koh Max. Recommended grad ability 20% 260  TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS Nexon EV Minimum Turning Circle Dia. in meter as per 1S:12222 10.6 m Minimum Turning Clearance circle dia. in meters as per 10.9m 1$:12222 Weight Gross vehicle weight (Laden), kg 1847 - 1941 Kerb weight (unladen), kg 1437-1531 261  TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS VEHICLE DIMENSIONS 1530 NOTE: Dimensions are in mm unladen condition 262  TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS AGGREGATE IDENTIFICATION Chassis No. punching near driver seat VIN plate near co-driver seat 263  MAINTENANCE

IDENTIFICATION Chassis No. punching near driver seat VIN plate near co-driver seat 263  MAINTENANCE AND CARE SERVICE INSTRUCTIONS The TATA NEXON EV has been manufactured to give you eco- nomical and trouble free performance. To achieve this, please fol- low the instructions as stated. Your vehicle is entitled to three free services (labour only). The free service coupons are attached to the sales invoice. Please present these coupons to the servicing dealer while availing free services. 1st free service - At 1000-2000 kms. OR 2 months, whichever is earlier. 2nd free service - At 7000-8000 kms. OR 6 months, whichever is earlier. 3rd free service - At 14500-15500 kms. OR 12 months, whichever is earlier. All services other than free services are chargeable. 264 Servicing of the vehicle can be done at any TATA MOTORS Au- thorised Dealer Workshop or TATA MOTORS Authorised Service Centre (TASC). Warranty claims can be settled by any TATA MOTORS Authorised Dealer Workshop or TATA MOTORS

(TASC). Warranty claims can be settled by any TATA MOTORS Authorised Dealer Workshop or TATA MOTORS Authorised Service Centre (TASC).  MAINTENANCE AND CARE SERVICE SCHEDULE Operation 102 127.5k 114 142.5k General 1 Wash the vehicle & Clean Even, e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e Radiator Fins Service Check & Top up Fluids (If required): Transaxle Oil, PDI & 2 |Coolant, Brake Fluid, LV Every |e|el/el/elel/e/el/elelel/ejel/ele{/el/el/e}/ele{ejeje Battery Electrolyte, Wind | Service Screen washer fluid Check HV Battery box PDI & 3 |under the vehicle for Every }e|el/elelel/e/el/el/ele/ejel/ele{/el/elel}ele{/eljeje cracks/leakages Service Inspect and clean (If re- Every 4 |quired) HV Battery . elelel/el/eleljel/el/e/e}el/e;elelelel/ele/eleje Service breather plug Check all the HV cables PDI & 5 |for looseness, cuts, wear Every |e }el/elel/el/ele/el/el/elel/el/el/el/ele/e;elelele/e & tear Service 265  MAINTENANCE AND CARE Operation Clean Charging socket (Cha Bowl) area properly

& tear Service 265  MAINTENANCE AND CARE Operation Clean Charging socket (Cha Bowl) area properly PDI & Every Service 114 142.5k Inspect cooling systems (Battery cooling system (BCS) and Traction cool- ing system (TCS)) PDI & Every Service Change coolant (Battery cooling system (BCS) and Traction cooling system (TCS)) # 60K/ 36M Check and Capture all DTC’s Clear all faults and Erase the Codes PDI & Every Service 10 Check condition of rubber bushes/parts in lower con- trol arms, front and rear coil spring seats, front & rear bump stoppers, anti roll bar links, rear twist 7.5K/ 6M 266  Operation beam, rubber boots/dust cover/bellow in rack & pin- ion, steering and suspen- sion ball joints, steering column. Replace if neces- sary. (First at 7.5K / 6M then at every service). For severe usage, above checks to be done at every 5,000 km or after every severe usage event. MAINTENANCE AND CARE x LO i N SS N (=) = 114 142.5k Check All door latch & after every severe usage event. 11 |striker

x LO i N SS N (=) = 114 142.5k Check All door latch & after every severe usage event. 11 |striker operations , Adjust 15K/ ° e e e . 12M If required Check for all bolts & nuts (Tighten). For severe 12 usage, above checks to be} 7.5K/ elelelelele ele done at every 5,000 km or 6M 267  MAINTENANCE AND CARE 13 Operation Check for tightening torque of all bolts & nuts of cradle FEM frame &A mount stud nyloc nut , B and C mount fastners PDI & Every Service x Cy N + oS st oS Se Brakes 14 Check front & rear brake pads. Replace if neces- sary 15K/ 12M 15 Replace brake fluid , Check brake system com- ponents for Leakages # 45K/ 24M Wheels & Tyres 16 Check & adjust wheel alignment (For severe usage, above checks to be done at every 5,000 km or after every severe usage event). # 15K/ 12M 268  Operation MAINTENANCE AND CARE x LO i N SS N (=) = 114 142.5k 17 Check for Tyre pressure, | #7.5K/ elelelelele ele condition & rotate 12M Transaxle 18 Oil change interval # 30K/ e ° e (First at 7.5K / 6M)

ele condition & rotate 12M Transaxle 18 Oil change interval # 30K/ e ° e (First at 7.5K / 6M) 24M Electrical Check specific gravity of 7.5K/ 19 |battery electrolyte for 12V , elelele;lele ele 6M Aux. battery 20 |Check headlamp focusing 15K/ e e e e 12M A.C. System Check Air-conditioning / PDI & 21 |HVAC System for satisfac-| Every | e | e elelele;lele ele tory performance Service . 15K/ 22 |Replace pollen filter 12M e e e e Replace Combi PM2.5 fil- | 15K/12 23 e e e e ter M 269  MAINTENANCE AND CARE # Kms or months whichever occurs earlier, Note - Additionally, Tyre pressure to be checked every 15 days * More frequently for vehicle, operating in severe condition Severe conditions as below- A: Repeatedly driving short distance of less than 7 km. B: Extensive low speed driving for long distances. C: Driving on rough, dusty, muddy, unpaved, graveled or salt-spread roads. D-Frequently Driving in heavy traffic area & in stop & go condition E-Driving only on uphill, downhill, or mountain

in heavy traffic area & in stop & go condition E-Driving only on uphill, downhill, or mountain roads. F: Vehicle towing, driving for petrol car, taxi, or other commercial use G: Frequently driving under high speed & acceleration. 270  MAINTENANCE AND CARE MOTOR COMPARTMENT . Brake Fluid Reservoir . Coolant Tank . High Voltage Components . Low Voltage Battery . Motor Compartment Fuse Box . Windshield Washer Container oak Whnh = 271  MAINTENANCE AND CARE Monthly And Yearly Checks Do These Checks At Least Once A Month * Do a check of the coolant level in the coolant reservoir. * Doacheck of the operation of all exte- rior lights, including the stop-lights, turn signals and hazard warning flashers. * Doacheck of the inflation pressures of all tires including the spare. At Least Twice A Year + Examine the heater and air condition- ing hoses for leaks or damage. + Examine the windshield washer spray and wiper operation. Clean the wiper blades with clean cloth dampened with washer fluid. *

spray and wiper operation. Clean the wiper blades with clean cloth dampened with washer fluid. * Doacheck of the headlight alignment. * Doacheck of the clamps. * Doacheck of the lap/shoulder belts for wear and function. + Examine for worn tires and loose wheel lug nuts. 272 Do These Checks At Least Once A Year * Clean the body and door drain holes. «Lubricate the door hinges and checks, and hood hinges. * Lubricate the door and hood locks and latches. + Lubricate the door rubber weather- strips. * Doacheck of the air conditioning sys- tem. * Clean the battery and terminals. * Do acheck of the brake fluid level. Cooling System Do a check of the cooling system compo- nents like the radiator, coolant reservoir, hoses and connections, coolant three-way valve, chiller for leakage and other dam- age. Replace any damaged parts. Cooling System Do a check of the cooling system compo- nents like the radiator, coolant reservoir, hoses and connections, coolant three-way valve, chiller for leakage

radiator, coolant reservoir, hoses and connections, coolant three-way valve, chiller for leakage and other dam- age. Replace any damaged parts. Brake Hoses And Lines Visually check for proper installation, chaf- ing, cracks, deterioration and any leakage. Replace any deteriorated or damaged parts immediately. Replacing The Components Of Your EV Since the electrical components of NEXON EV are not user serviceable, it is recommended that you approach your nearest TATA MOTORS authorised EV service centre to replace any electrical compo-nents of the car. Radiator Maintenance Maintaining radiator and fan motor shroud (FMS) is important for keeping your EV in good working condition as they’re essen- tial part of thermal management system (TMS). Routine maintenance of radiator and FMS safeguards EV powertrain com- ponents from overheating on your com- mute and also ensures the durability of these components. «Visually inspect the radiator and FMS.  Make sure the radiator and FMS are dust

these components. «Visually inspect the radiator and FMS.  Make sure the radiator and FMS are dust free to prevent particle buildup and clogging. Look for corrosion or breaks in the ra- diator cores, find cracked hoses and rusted clamps, check for any damage on side tanks, de-aeration port, coolant inlet and outlet ports and also watch for drip stains underneath the car. Always make sure that the coolant is topped up. Having to top up the coolant more than a couple times per year means that you probably have a leak and should have your radiator professionally inspected. This is ex- tremely important to your radiator parts maintenance and to keep it good and running. Keep an eye on the motor temperature (if shown in instrument cluster). If you notice the temperature raising more than it usually does, that probably means that your vehicle’s radiator isn’t performing at top efficiency and needs radiator parts maintenance. Make sure the coolant is always pres- ent in reservoir (always

needs radiator parts maintenance. Make sure the coolant is always pres- ent in reservoir (always above min level). Use only recommended coolant as specified in the lubricants section. * Have your radiator flushed and filled on an annual basis to get rid of degra- dation and wearing down of radiator. Instruction For Cleaning The Charg- ing Port * Keep the charge lid always closed. * When the lid is open ensure that dust caps are in closed position. * Ensure that drain outlet is not blocked. * During Normal Charging make sure that DC dust cap is closed. * In case of dust / mud accumulation in charging port, it can be cleaned with spraying clean water. * Incase of snow accumulation in charg- ing port, it can be cleaned with spray- ing clean lukewarm water. * Allow the water to drain completely through drain holes. * Allow the charging port to dry com- pletely. MAINTENANCE AND CARE @ NOTE Water entering into the charging port will always be drained through the drain system. 273

@ NOTE Water entering into the charging port will always be drained through the drain system. 273  MAINTENANCE AND CARE BRAKE FLUID LEVEL The level of the brake fluid should be be- een the ‘MIN’ and ‘MAX’ marks provided on the side of the brake fluid container. If he level falls below the ‘MIN’ mark, add recommended brake fluid. NOTE * Do not allow brake fluid to make contact with the skin or eyes. * Do not allow brake fluid to splash or Spill on the paint surface as it will damage the paint. In case of 274 spillage, wipe it off immediately. For more clarity about location of Brake Fluid Container and filling cap, please refer respective motor Compartment. WINDSHIELD WASHER FLUID LEVEL Examine if there is washer fluid in the tank. Fill it if necessary. Use a good quality fluid, diluted with water as necessary. NOTE * Do not use detergent or any other additive in the windshield washer reservoir. This can severely impair visibility when sprayed on the wind- shield, and can also damage

This can severely impair visibility when sprayed on the wind- shield, and can also damage your vehicle’s paint.  + Do not operate washer motor with no fluid in washer tank, washer motor will be damaged. For more clarity about location of Wind- shield Washer Container and filling cap, please refer image of the respec- tive motor Compartment. 12V BATTERY Examine the battery for electrolyte level against the marking on the bat- tery outer case. Examine the battery terminals for cor- rosion (a white or yellowish powder). To remove it, wash the terminals with a solution of baking soda. It will bubble up and turn brown. When this stops, wash it off with plain water. Dry off the battery with a cloth or paper towel. Apply petroleum jelly to the terminals to prevent further corrosion. Use a proper wrench to loosen and re- move cables from the terminals. Always disconnect the negative (-ve) cable first and reconnect it last. If your vehicle is equipped with Battery Sensor, then disconnect only

first and reconnect it last. If your vehicle is equipped with Battery Sensor, then disconnect only the Sen- sor Output Cable. Do not remove the Sensor, Sensor connector completely as this will result into Sensor function loss temporarily. Sensor functionality will be restored when the Vehicle is MAINTENANCE AND CARE parked for 3-4 hours without any oper- ation. Clean the battery terminals with a ter- minal cleaning tool or wire brush. Reconnect and tighten the cables, coat the terminals with petroleum jelly. Make sure that the battery is securely mounted. If you need to connect the battery toa charger, disconnect both cables to pre- vent damage to the vehicle’s electrical system. If your vehicle is equipped with Battery Sensor, connect the jump start leads on output terminal of Battery Sensor. Do not connect the jump start leads on Sensor surface or Battery terminal. This will result of function loss of Bat- tery sensor. Refer the below Battery Sensor image for do’s and don'ts. 275

function loss of Bat- tery sensor. Refer the below Battery Sensor image for do’s and don'ts. 275  MAINTENANCE AND CARE For location of battery, please refer image of the respective motor Com- partment. 276 Use only authorized Battery recom- mended by TATA MOTORS. Use of any other unauthorized Battery will result into Intelligent Alternator Control (IAC) function detoriation. OTE During normal operation, the battery generates gas which is explosive in nature. A spark or open flame can cause the battery to explode caus- ing very serious injuries. Keep all sparks, open flames and smoking materials away from the battery. The battery contains sulphuric acid (electrolyte) which is poisonous and highly corrosive in nature. Getting electrolyte in your eyes or on the skin can cause severe burns. Wear protective clothing and a face shield or have a skilled technician to do the battery maintenance.  TYRES UNDER INFLATION @) 1 2 CORRECT Y 3 OVER INFLATION @) 1 Under inflation Excessive side tread

TYRES UNDER INFLATION @) 1 2 CORRECT Y 3 OVER INFLATION @) 1 Under inflation Excessive side tread wear Correct tyre pressure Uniform wear 3 Over inflation Excessive cen- ter tread wear Inflation Check for inflation and condition of your vehicle tyres periodically. Check the pressure in the tyres when they are cold. Keeping the tyres properly inflated gives you the best combination of riding comfort, handling, tyre life and better energy effi- ciency. Over inflation of tyres makes the vehicle ride bumpy and harsh. Tyres are more prone to uneven wear and damage from road hazards. Under inflated tyres reduce your comfort in vehicle handling and are prone to fail- ures due to high temperature. They also cause uneven wear and more energy con- sumption. @ NOTE Every time you check inflation pressure, you should also examine tyres for un- even wear, damage and trapping of for- eign objects in the treads and wear. MAINTENANCE AND CARE Recommended Tyre Pressures Rear Spare Ingen 215/60 | 34

the treads and wear. MAINTENANCE AND CARE Recommended Tyre Pressures Rear Spare Ingen 215/60 | 34 psi /| 34 psi /|34 psi/ Condi-|® 1 6/2.34/2.34/2.34 tion 95H bar bar bar Laden] 215/60] 36 psi /| 36 psi /|36 psi / Condi-|R 1 6/2.48|2.48/2.48 tion 95H bar bar bar 277  MAINTENANCE AND CARE @ NOTE This is for reference. Kindly refer Tyre pressure as indicated on tyre pressure sticker provided on vehicle(near driver seat ) Tyre Rotation To increase tyre life rotate the tyre at spec- ified intervals or earlier depending on the operation of vehicle. The illustrations shows how to rotate tyres. 278 When Spare Wheel Is Same As Vehicle Wheels " 3 i rg i“ =-—_ea= a When Spare Is Different From Vehicle Wheels Ga -‘‘—_@G b (2 4 DO NOT USE SPARE TYRE SB SB oration @ NOTE Do not use spare wheel for tyre ro- tation, in case of temporary spare wheel used. Two or more temporary tyres should not be used on one vehicle. Tyre pressure to be checked every 15 days.  + Tyre pressure of temporary wheel is to

one vehicle. Tyre pressure to be checked every 15 days.  + Tyre pressure of temporary wheel is to be checked at least once in in a month. Wheel Alignment And Balancing Alignment: Incorrect wheel alignment causes excessive and uneven tyre wear. Check wheel alignment at specified inter- vals. Balancing: Wheels of your vehicle are balanced for better ride comfort and longer tyre life. Balancing needs to be done whenever tyre is removed from rim. ZX WARNING If the vehicle vibrates abnormally on a smooth road, have the wheel balanced done immediately. Alignment Incorrect wheel alignment causes exces- sive and uneven tyre wear. Check wheel alignment at specified intervals. Balancing Wheels of your vehicle are balanced for better ride comfort and longer tyre life. Bal- ancing needs to be done whenever tyre is removed from rim. Special Care For Tubeless Tyres « When you remove the tyre and install it back on the rim, take precautions not to damage tyre bead. Use tyre removal and assembly

install it back on the rim, take precautions not to damage tyre bead. Use tyre removal and assembly machines. Damage or cut on tyre bead may cause gradual loss of air and deflation of tyre. * Do not scratch the inner surface of tubeless tyre with metallic or sharp ob- ject. Tubeless tyres are coated with im- permeable layer of rubber from the inner surface which holds the air in the tyre. Removal of this layer due to scratching may cause gradual loss of air and deflation. * If wheel rim gets damaged in service, get the wheel rim repaired/ replaced immediately. Running the vehicle with damaged rim may cause deflation of tyre and subsequent dislodging of tyre from rim. * Keep the recommended inflation pres- sure. Over-inflation, in particular, may MAINTENANCE AND CARE cause puncture or bursting of tyre. @ NOTE Life and wear pattern of tyres depends on various parameters like tyre pres- sure, wheel alignment, wheel balanc- ing, tyre rotation, etc. It also largely depends on vehicle

sure, wheel alignment, wheel balanc- ing, tyre rotation, etc. It also largely depends on vehicle speed, load carried, usage, driving habits, road conditions, tyre quality, etc. In case fault is sus- pected to be due to poor quality of tyres, the same may be taken up with con- cerned tyre manufacturer. Tyre Equipment (EV) Summer tires have a tread designed to provide superior performance on dry pave- ment. However, the performance of these tyres will be substantially reduced in wet conditions. If you operate your vehicle on wet roads, use all season tyres for all four wheels Special Winter Equipment It is recommended that the following items be carried in the vehicle during winter: + Ascraper and stiff-bristled brush to re- 279  MAINTENANCE AND CARE move ice and snow from the windows and wiper blades. + Ashovel to dig the vehicle out of snow- drifts. + Extra windshield-washer fluid to refill the reservoir tank Driving on snow or Ice AX WARNING Wet ice (0°C and freezing rain), snow or

the reservoir tank Driving on snow or Ice AX WARNING Wet ice (0°C and freezing rain), snow or ice can be slick and very hard to drive on. The vehicle will have much less traction or “grip” under these conditions. Try to avoid driving on wet ice until the road is salted or sanded. « Whatever the conditions, drive with caution. Accelerate and slow down with care. If accelerating too fast, the drive wheels will lose even more traction. + Allow more stopping distance under these conditions. Braking should be started sooner than on dry pave- ment. 280 Allow greater following distances on slippery roads. Watch for slippery spots (glare ice). These may appear on an otherwise clear road in shaded areas. If a patch of ice is seen ahead, brake before reaching it. Try not to brake while on the ice, and avoid any sud- den steering maneuvers. Do not use cruise control on slippery roads. Use high quality ethylene glycol coolan Your vehicle is delivered with high quality ethylene glycol coolant in

ethylene glycol coolan Your vehicle is delivered with high quality ethylene glycol coolant in the cooling system. It is the only type of coolant that should be used because it helps prevent corrosion in the cooling system, lubricates the water pump and prevents freezing. Be sure to replace or replenish your coolant in accor- dance with the maintenance schedule Before winter, have your coolant tested to assure that its freezing point is suf- ficient for the temperatures anticipated during the winter.  VEHICLE PARKING for LONG DU- RATION (NON - USE MAINTE- NANCE) If you want to park your vehicle at one place for long duration, following care is to be taken: 1. Park the vehicle in covered, dry and if possible well-ventilated premises. En- gage a gear. 2. Remove the battery terminal cables (first remove the cable from the nega- tive terminal). Ensure that battery is fully charged. 3. Use wheel chocks to prevent move- ment of the car. 4. Clean and protect the painted parts using protective

chocks to prevent move- ment of the car. 4. Clean and protect the painted parts using protective wax. 5. Clean and protect the shiny metal parts using commercially available special compounds. 6. Sprinkle talcum powder on the rubber windscreen wiper and lift them off the glass. 7. Slightly open the windows. 8. Cover the vehicle with a cloth or perfo- rated plastic sheet. Do not use sheets of imperforated plastic as they do not allow moisture on the vehicle body to evaporate. 9. Inflate the tyres to 0.5 bar above the normal specified pressure and check it at regular intervals. 10. Check the battery charge every six weeks. MAINTENANCE AND CARE SMART KEY BATTERY REPLACE- MENT (For PEPS variant) Procedure 1. Open rear side of key (battery cover). 2. Replace with new battery in the smart key battery slot. 3. Ensure that the “+” symbol on the bat- tery is facing upwards. The correct po- larity is shown on the battery cover. 4. Close the battery cover. 5. Make sure that the key cover is

is shown on the battery cover. 4. Close the battery cover. 5. Make sure that the key cover is intact properly. 281  MAINTENANCE AND CARE @ NOTE + Use CR 2032 battery only. + An inappropriately disposed battery can be harmful to the environment and human health. Dispose the bat- tery according to your local law(s) and regulation. 282  ON BOARD DIAGNOSTIC (OBD Il) SYSTEM On board Diagnostics or OBD, is an auto- motive term referring to a vehicle’s self-di- agnostic and reporting capability. The OBD system allows continuous diagnosis of the components of the vehicle correlated with emissions. This system warns the driver, by turning “ON” the Malfunction Indication lamp (MIL) on the instrument cluster, when a fault causes emission levels to increase. The OBD system also has a diagnostic connector that can be interfaced with ap- propriate diagnostic tools, which makes it possible to read the fault codes stored in the Electronic Control Unit, together with a series of specific parameters

fault codes stored in the Electronic Control Unit, together with a series of specific parameters for vehicle operation and Diagnosis. This check can also be carried out by the traffic police. On board diagnostic located in cabin com- partment fuse box. (refer below image) MAINTENANCE AND CARE 283  MAINTENANCE AND CARE DO IT YOURSELF Daily Checks Tyres for unusual wear, cracks or dam- age and embedded foreign material such as nails, stones, etc. Traces of fluid and oil below vehicle. There is sufficient charging for the trip. Windshield, windows, mirrors, lights, and reflectors are clean and unob- ructed. si All lamps, wipers, wiper blades and horn for proper operation. All switches, gauges and tell tales are working properly. All doors, motor compartment and tail gate are securely closed and latched. All doors and tail gate are securely losed and latched. Tool kit, jack & handle, warning trian- gle, owner’s manual, first aid kit and vehicle documents are available and stored at their

trian- gle, owner’s manual, first aid kit and vehicle documents are available and stored at their locations. Tool kit, jack & handle, warning triangle, owner’s manual, first aid kit and vehicle docu- ments are available and stored at their fe) 284 locations. @ NOTE Water dripping below the car is normal. This is due to the usage of air condition- ing system. Weekly Checks * Coolant level + Brake fluid level * Windshield washer fluid level * Battery electrolyte level @ NOTE Tyre pressure always be measured in cold conditions. Do a check of tyre pres- sure and condition after every 15 days, including the spare tyre. CAR CARE Your vehicle is subjected to many external influences such as climate, road condi- tions, industrial pollution and proximity to the sea. These conditions demand regular care of the vehicle body. Dirt, insects, bird droppings, oil, grease and stone chippings should be removed as soon as possible. Washing Following these tips while washing your vehicle. 1. Always wash

as soon as possible. Washing Following these tips while washing your vehicle. 1. Always wash your vehicle in shade and ensure surface is at room temper- ature. 2. Wash with mild vehicle wash soap like ‘Car Shampoo’ and use a soft bristle brush, sponge or soft cloth and rinse it frequently while washing to avoid scratches. 3. To avoid scratches, please wear soft gloves. Remove finger rings, nails, wrist watch while washing. 4. To remove stubborn stains and con- taminants like tar, use turpentine or cleaners like ‘Stain remover’ which are  safe for paint surfaces. . Avoid substances like petrol, diesel, kerosene, benzene, thinner, acids or other solvents that cause damage to paint. Dry your vehicle thoroughly to prevent any damp spots. Rinse all surfaces thoroughly to pre- vent any traces of soap and other cleaners as this may lead to the forma- ion of stains on the painted surface later. apply water jet OR pressure water rom pipe directly on any rubber mate- rial or Seal surface. This

apply water jet OR pressure water rom pipe directly on any rubber mate- rial or Seal surface. This is to avoid damage to Rubber sealing parts in the sunroof system or in the vehicle. The damage to the sunroof sealing or any other seal in the vehicle will cause water ingress inside the vehicle. During washing of the vehicle, do not @) NOTE Avoid parking the car under trees without proper cover, it will reduce the amount of bird droppings, tree sap and pollen contact on paint sur- face. Regularly remove the twigs, leaves and vegetation near the windshield areas, to avoid water stagnation. Always close the sunroof while washing the vehicle. MAINTENANCE AND CARE WARNING Do not direct high pressure washer fluid/ water jets (Pressure above 0.5 bar) at electrical devices and connecter during washing. This is to prevent mal- function / failure of electrical system due to water ingress. After drying the vehicle, inspect it for chips and scratches that could allow corrosion to start. Apply

drying the vehicle, inspect it for chips and scratches that could allow corrosion to start. Apply touch up paint where nec- essary. Cleaning of Carpets Vacuum clean the carpet regularly to re- move dirt. Dirt will make the carpet wear out faster. Periodically, shampoo the car- pet to keep it looking new. Use carpet cleaners (preferably foam type). Follow the instructions that come with the cleaner. Apply it with a sponge or soft brush. Keep the carpeting as dry as possible by not adding water to the foam. 285  MAINTENANCE AND CARE Avoid wiping of painted surface in dry condition as it may leave scratches on the painted surface. Cleaning of Windows, Front and Rear Glasses Clean the windows inside and outside with commercially available glass cleaners. This will remove the haze that builds up on the inside of windows. Use a soft cloth or paper towels to clean all glass and plastic surfaces. Waxing Waxing and polishing is recommended to maintain the gloss and wet-look appear- ance of

Waxing Waxing and polishing is recommended to maintain the gloss and wet-look appear- ance of your paint finish. 1. Use good quality polish and wax for your vehicle. 2. Re-wax your vehicle when the water does not slip off the surface but col- lects over the surface in patches. 286 Polishing Polishes and cleaners can restore shine to the painted surface that has oxidized and become dull. They normally contain mild abrasives and solvents that remove the top layer of the finish coat. Polish your ve- hicle, if the finish does not regain its origi- nal shine after using wax. Interior Fabric Cleaning Tips 1. Stains should be treated immediately. If left for a long time, they can leave a permanent mark. 2. Cleaning the stains immediately is im- portant especially for stains, which contain artificial colors in the stain cre- ating liquid or semisolid substance. The colorant may leave a stain if kept for longer time. 3. Stain should not be removed by rub- bing. As far as possible, try to blot

kept for longer time. 3. Stain should not be removed by rub- bing. As far as possible, try to blot or lift the stain with cloth or plastic spatula and then clean the remaining stain with cloth or sponge. 4. Ifthe stain has dried, then gently brush off the material and then press with damp cloth or sponge till it disappears. 5. Do not use household detergents to clean the fabric. 6. Always use clean cotton cloth for cleaning. Paint Care Following guidelines will help you to pro- tect your vehicle from corrosion effectively. @ NOTE Avoid Spillage or Direct contact of Air freshener liquid/chemicals with painted plastic parts. These chemicals may cause damage to paint like blisters, peel off, wrinkles etc. Proper Cleaning In order to protect your vehicle from corro- sion it is recommended that you wash your vehicle thoroughly and frequently in case: + There is a heavy accumulation of dirt and mud especially on the underbody. * Itis driven in areas having high atmos- pheric pollution due

and mud especially on the underbody. * Itis driven in areas having high atmos- pheric pollution due to smoke, soot, dust, iron dust and other chemical pol-  lutants. It is driven in coastal areas. The underbody must be thoroughly pressure washed after every three months. In addition to regularly washing your car, the following precautions need to be taken. Periodic Inspection Regularly inspect your vehicle for any damage in the paint film such as deep scratches and immediately get them repaired from an authorized service outlet, as these defects tend to accel- erate corrosion. Inspect mud liners for damages Keep all drain holes clear from clog- ging. Proper Parking Always park your vehicle in shade do not expose the vehicle to direct sun- light for extended period of time . Extended exposure to sunlight may deform plastic parts like dashboard, leather surface etc. Item like cigarette lighter, perfume spray, soft drink can kept inside the ve- hicle in direct sunlight may result in fire

perfume spray, soft drink can kept inside the ve- hicle in direct sunlight may result in fire explosion etc. Do not park your vehicle for long dura- tion in front of glass building where di- rect sunlight is exposed on the glass which reflects and may transfer the heat on vehicle. In this case plastic parts may melt. MAINTENANCE AND CARE Wiper Care * To prevent damage to the wipers or windshield, do not operate the wipers when the windshield is dry. * To prevent damage to the wiper arms and other components, do not attempt to move the wipers manually. @ NOTE We strongly recommended to avoid ap- plying any external coating solution on vehicle glazing / glasses, especially on Front & Rear Windscreen Glass. This may affect the Wiper performance & lead to poor visibility while using Wipers in wet condition/Rainy season. 287  MAINTENANCE AND CARE VALUE ADDED SERVICES Why are Corrosion Protection Waxes Pr] ere necessary?Corrosion is caused by: wy Wu RTH Water / salt water acid rain &

Protection Waxes Pr] ere necessary?Corrosion is caused by: wy Wu RTH Water / salt water acid rain & atmospheric fallouts. Critical areas are: el Cale iy Cavities: joints, crevices, spot welds, underbody vA ‘krovn=E * Corrosion is the most important factor when we talk about the vehicle life. If you treat your car you can prolong the life. + It is very dangerous to drive around in a corroded vehicle. * The corrosion creeps onto the vehicle from the inside and from the outside. The most dangerous kind of corrosion is often not dis- covered until it is too late. Benefits of Anti - Rust Treatment: + Aprofessionally applied range of world class products offering real value to the new and used vehicle customer. + The treatment has been developed to withstand the harshest environmental and climatic conditions (rust. Pollutants, stone and gravel impact, etc.) + Insulate cabin space from external noises. + Expensive tin work and Denting / Painting avoided. + Higher resale value for the

external noises. + Expensive tin work and Denting / Painting avoided. + Higher resale value for the vehicle. + Higher safety — uncorroded vehicle * 10 free checkups available 288  MAINTENANCE AND CARE TATA MOTORS has tied up with M/s Wurth, M/s Autokrom, M/s 3M India Lt d & M/s Bardahl for these world class treatment at af-fordable prices. These treatments are available in all authorized workshops. The Dealer Service Marketing Executive will explain to you the benefits and terms and conditions of this treatment. | / We have been explained the Benefits, Terms and conditions and the prices of these treatments by the Dealer Service Marketing Executive. | | wish to avail | Do not wish to avail extended warrant policy. Customer’s Signature Dealer’s Signature 289  MAINTENANCE AND CARE VEHICLE INTERIOR ENRICHMENT Why protect your new car’s fabric interior? * Someone will spoil your vehicle’s fabric carpet or seats. * Assignificant detractor from your vehicle’s resale value. * Apermanent

fabric carpet or seats. * Assignificant detractor from your vehicle’s resale value. * Apermanent stain on your vehicle’s interior fabric. The Enemy Drink Spills - Food Stains - Mud - Ultraviolet Rays Pets - Traffic Benefits: Vehicle Interior Enrichment + Removal of medium stains and dirt from all interior parts of the car i.e., carpet, upholstery and roof lining. * Cleaning of windshield and all windows (inside and outside). + Dressing of all internal plastics (e.g.: door pad trims) and rubber parts. * The treatment involves cleaning and dressing of all parts of the exposed interiors. * Specialised protection for seat fabric from liquid spills. TATA MOTORS has tied up with M/s Wurth and M/s Autokrom for this world class treatment at affordable prices. This treatment is available in all authorized workshops. The Dealer Service Marketing Executive will explain to you the benefits and terms and conditions of this treatment. | / We have been explained the Terms and conditions, Coverage

and conditions of this treatment. | / We have been explained the Terms and conditions, Coverage and Owner’s responsibility by the Dealer Service Marketing Execu- tive. O | wish to avail | Do not wish to avail extended warrant policy. Customer’s Signature Dealer’s Signature 290  VEHICLE WARRANTY: TERMS AND CONDITIONS We WARRANT each TATA NEXON EV vehicle and parts thereof manufactured by us to be free from defect in material and work-manship subject to the following terms and conditions: 1. This warranty shall be for a period of 36 months from the date of sale of the car or a mileage of 1,25,000 km whichever occurs earlier. The warranty on the battery and motor shall be for a period of 96 months from the date of sale of car or a mileage of 1,60,000 KMs which-ever occur earlier. Our obligation under this warranty shall be limited to repairing or replacing, free of charge, such parts of the car which, in our opinion, are defective, on the car being brought to us or to our dealers within

car which, in our opinion, are defective, on the car being brought to us or to our dealers within the period. The parts so repaired or replaced shall also be warranted for quality and workmanship but such warranty shall be co-terminus with this original warranty. Any part which is found to be defective and is replaced by us under the warranty shall be our property. . As for such parts as Tyres, Batteries, Audio and / or Video equipment (if any), etc. not manufactured by us but supplied by other parties, this warranty shall not apply, but buyers of the car shall be entitled to, so far as permissible by law, all such rights as we may have against such parties under their warranties in respect of such parts. This warranty shall not apply if the car or any part thereof is WARRANTY repaired or altered otherwise than in accordance with our standard repair procedure or by any person other than from our sales or service establishments, our authorized dealers, service centres or service points

from our sales or service establishments, our authorized dealers, service centres or service points in any way so as, in our judg- ment which shall be final and binding, to affect its reliability, nor shall it apply if, in our opinion which shall be final and bind- ing, the car is subjected to misuse, negligence, improper or inadequate maintenance or accident or loading in excess of such carrying capacity as certified by us, or such services as prescribed in our Owner’s Manual are not carried out by the buyer through our sales or service establishments, our author- ized dealers, service centres or service points. . This warranty shall not apply to the replacement of nor- mal wear parts, including without limitation, drive belts, hoses, wiper blades, fuses, clutch disc, brake shoes, brake pads, cables and all rubber parts (except oil seal and glass run). . This warranty shall not cover any inherent normal deteriora- tion of the car or any of its parts arising from the actual use of the

inherent normal deteriora- tion of the car or any of its parts arising from the actual use of the car or any damage due to negligent or improper operation or storage of the car. ._ This warranty shall not apply to normal maintenance services like oils & fluid changes, head lamps focusing, fastener retight- ening, center hub cap/wheel cover. wheel balancing and align- ment, tyre rotation, adjustment of valve clearance, ignition timing and consumables like bulbs, air and gas leaks in case 291  WARRANTY 10 11. 12. 13. 292 of air conditioned cars. This warranty shall not apply to any damage or deterioration caused by environmental pollution or bird droppings. Slight ir- regularities not recognized as affecting the function or quality of the vehicle or parts, such as slight noise or vibration, de- fects appearing only under particular or irregular operations are items considered characteristics of the vehicle. . This warranty shall be null and void if the car is subjected to abnormal use

of the vehicle. . This warranty shall be null and void if the car is subjected to abnormal use such as rallying, racing or participation in any other competitive sport. This warranty shall not apply to any repair or replacements as a result of accident or collision. This warranty is expressly in lieu of all warranties, whether by law or otherwise, expressed or implied, and all other obliga- tions or liabilities on our part and we neither assume, nor au- thorize any person to assume on our behalf, any other liability arising from the sale of the car or any agreement in relation thereto. The buyer shall have no other rights except those set out above and have, in particular, no right to repudiate the sale, or any agreement or to claim any reduction in the purchase price of the car, or to demand any damages or compensation for losses, incidental or indirect, or inconvenience or conse- quential damages, loss of car, or loss of time, or otherwise, incurred or accrued. Any claim arising

damages, loss of car, or loss of time, or otherwise, incurred or accrued. Any claim arising from this warranty shall be recognized only if it is notified in writing to us or to our authorized dealer with- out any delay soon after such defects as covered & ascer- tained under this warranty. 14. This warranty is fully transferable to subsequent vehicle owner. Only unexpired remaining period of warranty ap- plies. 15. We reserve our rights to make any change or modification in design of the car or its parts or to introduce any improvement therein or to incorporate in the car any additional part or ac- cessory at any time without incurring any obligation to incor- porate the same in the cars previously sold.  EXTENDED WARRANTY EXTENDED WARRANTY TATA MOTORS recommends the purchase of its extended warranty program. Coverage - Mechanical + Electrical Benefits * Insures you against unforeseen break down repair bills. + Documentation is simple and hassle free. + Near cashless & speedy claim

break down repair bills. + Documentation is simple and hassle free. + Near cashless & speedy claim Term 36 + 12 months or 1,25,000 kms whichever occurs first Ganiaaiy OR uP TO 5 YEARS 36 + 24 months or 1,25,000 kms whichever occurs first Extended Warranty is available in the dealership from where you have purchased your vehicle. We strongly recommend purchase of Extended Warranty at time of purchase of your vehicle. Extended Warranty can be availed until warranty period from date of purchase of vehicle. The Dealer Service Marketing Executive shall explain to you the Terms and conditions, Coverage and Owner’s responsi- bility. Note + The extended warranty comes into force once the manufacturer’s warranty expires. * It is more restrictive as by the time it comes into force the vehicle is already 36 months old. What Is Covered? * Mechanical / Electrical break down as defined in this warranty and confirmed by the dealer within the stipulated terms and condi-tions. «+ TATA MOTORS dealer

and confirmed by the dealer within the stipulated terms and condi-tions. «+ TATA MOTORS dealer shall either repair or replace any part found to be defective with a new part or an equivalent at no cost to 293  EXTENDED WARRANTY the owner for parts or labour. * Such defective parts which have been replaced will become property of TATA PASSENGER ELECTRIC MOBILITY LTD. What is not covered? Please refer the Ext What Is Not Cove! Please refer the Ext ended Warranty Booklet for details of the exclusion list. Soft copy can be available with the dealer. red? ended Warranty Booklet for details of the exclusion list. Soft copy can be available with the dealer. Owner’s Responsibility * Proper use, mai Booklet. The record + Retention of mai ntenance and care of the vehicle in accordance with the instructions contained in the Owner's Manual and Service is of the same to be ensured in Owner's Manual. intenance service bills. | / We have been explained the Terms and conditions, Coverage and Owner's

intenance service bills. | / We have been explained the Terms and conditions, Coverage and Owner's responsibility by the Dealer Service Marketing Execu- tive LJ 1 wis h to avail iL] Do not wish to avail extended warrant policy. Customer’s Signature Dealer’s Signature 294  Customer’s copy @e TATA PDI Coupon NEXON EV Pre Delivery Inspection Owner’s Name: VIN No.: Engine / Motor No.: Reg. No.: ODO Reading: Date of Service: Service Dealer’s Stamp & Signature Dealer’s copy «lp tata = PDI Coupon (NIE XON EY Pre Delivery Inspection AVAIL ALL SERVICES TO GET BENEFIT OF WARRANTY This Coupon entitles for free labour jobs.(Refer maintenance section) Owner's Name: VIN No.: Engine / Motor No.: Reg. No.: ODO Reading: Date of Sale: Date of Service: Service Dealer code: | hereby certify that the PDI has been carried out to my entire satisfaction. Customer’s Signature Service Dealer’s Stamp & Signature (Free Service coupons are valid at all TATA Authorized Service Centers in India)  Customer’s copy ap

Service coupons are valid at all TATA Authorized Service Centers in India)  Customer’s copy ap tata 1° Free Service Coupon NEXON EV Valid for 1000 - 2000 kms. OR 2 months, Whichever is earlier Owner’s Name: VIN No.: Engine / Motor No.: Reg. No.: ODO Reading: Date of Service: Service Dealer’s Stamp & Signature Dealer’s copy <p Tata 1° Free Service Coupon DYE XON EY Valid for 1000 - 2000 kms. OR 2 months, whichever is earlier. AVAIL ALL SERVICES TO GET BENEFIT OF WARRANTY This Coupon entitles for free labour jobs.(Refer maintenance section) Owner's Name: VIN No.: Engine / Motor No.: Reg. No.: ODO Reading: Date of Sale: Date of Service: Service Dealer code: | hereby certify that the service has been carried out to my entire satisfaction. Customer’s Signature Service Dealer’s Stamp & Signature (Free Service coupons are valid at all TATA Authorized Service Centers in India)  Customer’s copy ap tata 2" Free Service Coupon NEXON EV Valid for 7000 - 8000 kms. OR 6 months, whichever is earlier

tata 2" Free Service Coupon NEXON EV Valid for 7000 - 8000 kms. OR 6 months, whichever is earlier Owner’s Name: VIN No.: Engine / Motor No.: Reg. No.: ODO Reading: Date of Service: Service Dealer’s Stamp & Signature Dealer’s copy qd Tata 2" Free Service Coupon YE XON EY Valid for 7000 - 8000 kms. OR 6 months, whichever is earlier. AVAIL ALL SERVICES TO GET BENEFIT OF WARRANTY This Coupon entitles for free labour jobs.(Refer maintenance section) Owner’s Name: VIN No.: Engine / Motor No.: Reg. No.: ODO Reading: Date of Sale: Date of Service: Service Dealer code: | hereby certify that the service has been carried out to my entire satisfaction. Customer’s Signature Service Dealer’s Stamp & Signature (Free Service coupons are valid at all TATA Authorized Service Centers in India)  Customer’s copy ap tata 3" Free Service Coupon NEXON EV Valid for 14,500 — 15,500 kms. OR 12 months, whichever is earlier Owner's Name: VIN No.: Engine / Motor No.: Reg. No.: ODO Reading: Date of Service: Service

earlier Owner's Name: VIN No.: Engine / Motor No.: Reg. No.: ODO Reading: Date of Service: Service Dealer’s Stamp & Signature Dealer’s copy <p Tata 3 Free Service Coupon YE XON EY Valid for 14,500 — 15,500 kms. OR 12 months, whichever is earlier. AVAIL ALL SERVICES TO GET BENEFIT OF WARRANTY This Coupon entitles for free labour jobs.(Refer maintenance section) Owner's Name: VIN No.: Engine / Motor No.: Reg. No.: ODO Reading: Date of Sale: Date of Service: Service Dealer code: | hereby certify that the service has been carried out to my entire satisfaction. Customer’s Signature Service Dealer’s Stamp & Signature (Free Service coupons are valid at all TATA Authorized Service Centers in India)  TATA MOTORS | SERVICE RESPONSIVE ¢ RELIABLE ¢ BEST VALUE wa DOORSTEP a SPEED-0-SERVICE REFINISHING SOLUTIONS QUICK REPAIR Fae ae EXTENDED UALITY SERVICE ASSESSMENT TRAINING VALUE CARE wget ee Sino CURTIFCATION WARRANTY RAPID REPAIR eG

