CAR IDENTIFICATION RECORD OWNER’S NAME: Following items are provided with your vehicle: ADDRESS: 1. Owner’s Manual SELLING DEALER CODE: 2. Battery Warranty Card (if applicable) DATE OF DELIVERY: 3. First Aid Kit DATE OF REGISTRATION: 4. Advance Warning Triangle 5. Jack REGISTRATION NO.: 6. Spare Fuses (Provided in CHASSIS NO.: fuse box) 7. Tool Kit ENGINE NO.: TRANSAXLE NO.: BATTERY MAKE: BATTERY SR. NO.: BATTERY CODE: KEY NO.: THE WARRANTY ON THIS VEHICLE IS VALID ONLY IF THE DETAILS ARE FILLED, SIGNED AND STAMPED BY THE SELLING DEALER DEALERS SIGNATURE AND STAMP  <p TATA NEXON OWNER’S MANUAL TATA MOTORS Rev01/SEPT 2023  CUSTOMER ASSISTANCE In our constant endeavour to provide assistance and complete service backup, TATA MOTORS has established an all India cus- tomer assistance centre. In case you have a query regarding any aspect of your vehicle, our Customer Assistance Centre will be glad to assist you on our Toll Free no. 1800 209 8282 You can also approach nearest TATA MOTORS

be glad to assist you on our Toll Free no. 1800 209 8282 You can also approach nearest TATA MOTORS dealer. DIAGNOSTIC EXPERT For updated information related to Dealer Network refer link https://dealer-locator.cars.tatamotors.com/ TATA MOTORS 24X7 Roadside Assistance Program offers technical help in the event of a breakdown. Call the toll-free Road-side Assistance. For additional information, refer to "24X7 Roadside Assistance" section in the Owner’s manual. REFINISHING SOLUTIONS BODY & PAINT RAPID REPAIR MINOR BODY REPAIRS  FOREWORD Dear Customer, Welcome to the TATA MOT ORS family, Thank you on the purchase of TATA MOT ORS vehicle. As a global Indian automobile manufacturer, we focus on innovation, technology and build high quality products with exceeding values of “Connecting Aspirations’. The Owner’s Manual will familiarize you with the operations, equipment description, features that are either as standard or optional on your vehicle. It is requested you read this manual carefully

are either as standard or optional on your vehicle. It is requested you read this manual carefully and follow the instructions and recommendations as mentioned. You are advised to carry out service, maintenance and repairs at TATA MOT ORS Dealers and Authorized service centers through out the life of your vehicle. Always use genuine parts for continued performance of your vehicle. Avoid modification, non-genuine accessories fitment on your vehicle. TATA Motors does not carry any liability arising due to it. Always keep this manual in the vehicle. You can contact our dealer or Customer Assistance toll free no.(1800 209 8282) in case of any query or support required. Information provided in this Owner’s Manual is explicit at the time of publication. However, as TATA MOTORS continues to make changes and improve products, it reserves the right to make changes in this manual or any product at any time, without notice and without any obligations. We look forward for your continued

product at any time, without notice and without any obligations. We look forward for your continued association with us for many years to come. Wishing you a Safe and pleasant driving experience. TATA MOTORS PASSENGER VEHICLES LTD. Floor 3, 4, Plot-18, Nanavati Mahalaya,Mudhana Shetty Marg, BSE, Fort, Mumbai, (MH) - 400 001, India ©Copyright 2023 TATAMOTORS All rights reserved, may not be copied, translated or reproduced in whole or in part without written permission from TATA MOTORS iii   CONTENTS 01. INTRODUCTION Digital Display (7” Inch)(If equipped) 71 Know Your Vehicle 1 Digital Display (10” Inch) (if Equipped) 86 Warnings and Indicators 101 Important Information 7 Audio Reminders 116 Seats 8 Anti-lock Braking System (ABS) 28 Starting and Stopping 119 Anti-theft Device Immobilizer 32 Steering System and Adjustment 124 Driving Tips 127 Keys 33 Operating of Lights and Wipers 135 Types of Keys 34 Seats Adjustments 138 Doors 39 Mirrors 144 Windows 4 Driving Support System 147 Bonnet

of Keys 34 Seats Adjustments 138 Doors 39 Mirrors 144 Windows 4 Driving Support System 147 Bonnet and Fuel Lid 44 Climate Control 167 Digital Display (4” Inch) 49 Fascia Switches 178 Vv  CONTENTS Power Sunroof 179 Utility Pockets on Front Doors 203 Steering Mounted Controls (if equipped) 184 Utility Pockets on Rear Doors 203 Infotainment System Display 186 Center Console 204 MIC (if equipped) 187 Foldable Arm Rest (if equipped) 205 Speakers & Tweeter (if equipped) 188 Luggage Compartment 205 USB Port (if equipped) 188 Hooks (if equipped) 206 Power Socket 189 Luggage Compartment Cover 207 Antenna 190 Roof Rail 207 Lamps 190 Roof Grab Handle 192 Emergency Equipment 209 Vehicle Telematics 192 Spare Wheel Removal Process 210 Remote Engine Start/stop (RESS) (If equipped) 193 In Case of Flat Tyre 211 Remote Ac Control (RAC) (If equipped) 194 Jump Starting Your Car 214 Wireless Power Charging (if equipped) 195 Towing 216 Fuses 218 Storage Compartment 201 24 X 7 Roadside Assistance 227 Glove

(if equipped) 195 Towing 216 Fuses 218 Storage Compartment 201 24 X 7 Roadside Assistance 227 Glove Box 202 Driver Side Coin Box 203 vi  09. TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS Fuel Specifications 237 Lubricant Specifications 238 Vehicle Specifications 240 Vehicle Dimensions 243 Aggregate Identification 244 10. MAINTENANCE AND CARE Engine Compartment 245 Engine Oil Level 247 Brake Fluid Level 248 Engine Coolant Level 249 Windshield Washer Fluid Level 250 Battery 251 Tyres 253 Vehicle Parking for Long Duration (non - Use Maintenance) 255 Smart Key Battery Replacement (For PEPS 256 variant) On Board Diagnostic (OBD II) System 257 CONTENTS Park Regeneration Procedure 258 Do It Yourself 259 Service Instructions 261 Service Schedule 262 Car Care 273 Value Added Services 280 Vehicle Interior Enrichment 282 Vehicle Exterior Enrichment 283 11. ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION Environment Protection 285 12. WARRANTY Warranty Terms & Conditions 287 13. EXTENDED WARRANTY Extended Warranty Terms & Condtions 289 vii

Warranty Terms & Conditions 287 13. EXTENDED WARRANTY Extended Warranty Terms & Condtions 289 vii  viii  INTRODUCTION KNOW YOUR VEHICLE Bonnet Turn Indicator/ DRL / PO Head Lamp Fog Lamp Front Parking Sensors (If equipped) Front Camera Front Windshield Wipers Sunroof 9. Roof Rails 10. Windows 11. Rear View Mirror with Camera 12. Door Handle Switch (DHS) 13. Alloy Wheels (If equipped) ONOaARWN DS  INTRODUCTION Fuel Lid Position Lamp Stop Lamp Turn Indicator Reverse Lamp Reflex Reflector Rear Parking Sensors Tail Gate Open Switch 9. Rear Camera 10. High Mounted Stop Lamp 11. Rear Windshield Wiper 12. Shark Fin Antenna (If equipped) SNAAPP WN D>  INTRODUCTION 1. Door Opening Lever 2. Door Locking/Unlocking Knob ad Driver side Power Window Express Up/Down Power Window Switches Inhibit Switch Fuel Lid Opening Lever Seat Ventilation (If equipped) ONOas Steering Mounted Switches (If equipped) 9. Paddle Shifter (If equipped) 10. Driver side Coin Box 11. Bonnet Opening Lever 12. ORVM Adjuster

9. Paddle Shifter (If equipped) 10. Driver side Coin Box 11. Bonnet Opening Lever 12. ORVM Adjuster Knob  INTRODUCTION 9. SNAAPP WN D> Instrument Cluster Horn Pad Driver Air Bag Start/Stop Switch Drive Modes Gear Lever Hazard Warning Switch Infotainment Display Passenger Airbag 10. Glove Box 11. Temperature Control Panel 12. Parking Brake 13. Power Socket & USB 14. Arm Rest 15. USB Charger for Rear Passenger  Important Message In this Owner’s Manual, you will find the text under the heading “WARNING’, “CAUTION” and “NOTE” which highlights important information. Pay particular atten- tion to these highlighted messages. The Images / Illustrations in this owner’s man- ual are only for reference. It may defer with actual vehicle. @ NOTE Indicates additional information that will assist you in gaining the optimum ben- efit and care for your vehicle. ZX WARNING Indicates procedures or information that must be followed precisely in order to avoid the possibility of severe personal injury and

that must be followed precisely in order to avoid the possibility of severe personal injury and serious damage to the vehi- cle. CAUTION It indicates to be careful. You are capa- ble of doing something that might result in damage to equipment. Running-in Period The more you look after the engine when it is new, the more satisfied you will be with its performance in the future. Avoid rapid acceleration and prolonged high speed running of the engine for the first 2,000 km. Do not exceed the following road speeds during running in period. 1 15 2 30 3 45 4 60 5 80 6 (If equipped) 100 INTRODUCTION Avoid heavy loads, e.g. driving at full throt- tle, during this period. Change gears judi- ciously. While cruising, brief full-throttle accelera- tion within the limits of local traffic laws contributes to a good break-in. Wide opened throttle acceleration can be detrimental and should be avoided.   IMPORTANT INFORMATION Safe Driving Safety consciousness not only ensures your safety and the

IMPORTANT INFORMATION Safe Driving Safety consciousness not only ensures your safety and the safety of other road users, but it also helps to reduce the wear and tear on your vehicle. Safe Driving Depends On: How quickly you make decisions to avoid an accident. Your ability to concentrate. How well you can see and judge ob- jects. How well familiar you are with your ve- hicle controls and its capabilities. Safety Tips Always take into account the road con- ditions, weather conditions, vehicle speed in order to prevent accidents. Turn ‘ON’ the side indicators at least 30 meters before taking a turn or changing the lane. Decelerate to a safe speed before tak- ing turn. Do not apply brakes during cornering. When overtaking other vehicles, watch out for the oncoming vehicle. Never drive under the influence of al- cohol or drugs. If your vehicle is equipped with info- tainment/ navigation system, set and make changes to your travel route only when the vehicle is parked. Program radio

system, set and make changes to your travel route only when the vehicle is parked. Program radio presets with the vehicle parked, and use your programmed presets to make radio use quicker and simpler. If your car gets flooded and has soaked carpeting or water on the floor- ing, you should not try to start the en- SAFETY gine, we recommend to kindly contact TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre. While Handling Hot Parts Never remove the coolant cap when the engine is hot. The engine coolant is under high pressure and could splash on to skin/eyes causing severe burns. Stay rod becomes hot enough after ve- hicle running, be careful while using it. Touch only rubber part available on stay rod. Never touch engine exhaust after ve- hicle running as it will cause severe in- jury. Do not touch tyre and wheel rim when it is hot after a long journey it may cause burn injury.  SAFETY SEATS Your vehicle is provided with good seating comfort. To make your journey more safe and enjoyable we

Your vehicle is provided with good seating comfort. To make your journey more safe and enjoyable we recommend you to fol- low below warnings and cautions. Driver’s seat AX WARNING + Donot adjust seat while driving / ve- hicle is moving. Doing so could re- sult in loss of control, and an accident causing death, serious in- jury, or property damage. + Always sit as far back as possible from the steering wheel while main- taining comfortable control of the vehicle. Fitment of seat covers on driver seat with airbags is strictly prohibited. + Do not keep any sitting cushion on seats. This may result in serious or fatal injury in the event of accident. + After adjusting the seat make sure it is securely locked by pushing it for- ward and backwards without using lock release lever. Sudden or unex- pected movement of the driver’s seat could cause to lose control of the vehicle resulting in an accident. + All passengers must be seated in seats and restrained with seat belt properly while

an accident. + All passengers must be seated in seats and restrained with seat belt properly while riding in vehicle + If there are occupants in the rear seats, be careful while adjusting the front seat position. Front Passenger Seat A\ WARNING Never ride in a vehicle with a front seat-back fully reclined. This may lead to serious injuries. Fitment of seat cov- ers on front passenger seat with airbags is strictly prohibited. Rear Seat Back AX WARNING The rear seatback must be securely latched. If not, passengers and objects could thrown forward resulting in seri- ous injury in the event of a sudden stop or collision. Luggage and other objects in boot should be kept flat. If large, heavy, or piled they must be secured properly. No passenger should ride in the boot area or sit or lie on folded seat- backs while the vehicle is in motion. Applicable for Hatchback/SUV ZX WARNING + Under no circumstances should ob- jects be piled higher than the seat- backs. Failure to follow these warnings

should ob- jects be piled higher than the seat- backs. Failure to follow these warnings could result in serious in- jury in the event of a sudden stop or collision. Ensure that objects are se- curely fastened. + Storing items against seatback or in any other way interfering with proper locking of a seatback could result in serious or fatal injury in a sudden stop or collision After reset- ting the seatback to its seating posi- tion make sure it is securely latched  by pushing it forward and back- wards ZA\ CAUTION Your hands might cut or injured by the sharp edges of the seats mechanism during looking for small objects trapped under the seats or between the seat and the center console. Head Restraint Front Seat Adjust the head restraint so that it is as close to the head as possible and the cen- ter of the head restraint supports the back of the head at eye level. Correctly adjusted | Incorrectly adjusted | Incorrectly adjusted A\ WARNING Do not drive the vehicle without the seat head

adjusted | Incorrectly adjusted A\ WARNING Do not drive the vehicle without the seat head restraints. Head restraints are in- tended to help reduce injuries during an accident. SAFETY Rear Seat Adjust the head restraint so that it is as close to the head as possible and the cen- er of the head restraint supports the back of the head at eye level.  SAFETY Buckling of Seat Belt tilt the tongue and pull on the lap seat SEAT BELTS This section describes your Vehicle’s Seat belts, Airbags and Child restraints system. Please read and follow all these instruc- tions carefully to minimize risk of severe injury or death. + Seat belts are the primary restraints system in the vehicle. All occupants, including the driver, should always wear seat belts. Your vehicle is equipped with three point seat belts for all occupants. + Sit back and adjust the driver seat. Make sure that your seat is adjusted to a good driving position and the back of the seat is upright. dy INSERT TO LOCK PRESS TO UNLOCK

to a good driving position and the back of the seat is upright. dy INSERT TO LOCK PRESS TO UNLOCK Grasp the tongue then slowly pull ou he seat belt over the shoulder and across the chest. When the seat belt is long enough to fit, insert the tongue into the lock buckle until you hear a “CLICK” which indicates that the seat- belt is securely locked. (Refer “IN- SERT TO LOCK” image) Position the lap portion of seat belt across your pelvic bone, below your abdomen. To remove slack, pull up a bit on the shoulder seat belt. To loosen belt. A snug seat belt reduces the risk of sliding under the seat belt in a colli- sion. Ensure that the seat belt running over the body (shoulder segment and lap segment) does not have any twist. Twisted seat belt may not offer effec- tive protection when required. Ensure that the seat belt webbing is straight and not twisted. Twisted seat belts may not work properly in case of collision. he lap portion seat belt if it is too tight, 10  Releasing The Seat Belt

in case of collision. he lap portion seat belt if it is too tight, 10  Releasing The Seat Belt To release the seat belt, push the red but- ton on the lock buckle (refer “PRESS TO UNLOCK’ image). Ensure to hold seat belt during unlocking and release it slowly to- wards the seat belt mounting. The seat belt will automatically retract to its stowed position. If necessary, slide the tongue down the webbing to allow the seat belt to retract fully. ZX WARNING Due to retractor reversal action if you leave the seat belt from the unlock po- sition it may hit you or parts like glass in the way which may cause injury to you or damage to the vehicle. ZX WARNING + Each seating position and seat belt assembly must be used by one oc- cupant. + Be careful not to damage or tamper the seat belt webbing or hardware. Inspect the seat belt system period ically, checking for cuts, frays, or loose parts. A frayed or torn seatbelt could rip apart in a collision and leave you with no protection. If the seat

or torn seatbelt could rip apart in a collision and leave you with no protection. If the seat belt webbing or hardware is damaged, get it replaced immedi- ately at TATA Motors Authorized service centre. Do not insert any items such as coins, clips, etc. into the seat belt buckles, and be careful not to spill liquids into these parts. If foreign materials get into a seat belt buckle, the seat belt will not work properly. Do not wear seat belts over hard, sharp or fragile items in clothing, such as pens, keys, spectacles etc. Do not use any accessories on seat belts or modify in any way the seat- belt system. Devices claiming to im- prove occupant comfort or repositioning the seat belt, can re- duce the protection provided by the seat belt and increase the chance of serious injury in a collision. SAFETY Seat Belt Height Adjustments If height adjustment is provided in the seat belt, occupant can adjust it as per their comfort. 11  SAFETY Use Of Seat Belts For Pregnant Seat Belt Warning

can adjust it as per their comfort. 11  SAFETY Use Of Seat Belts For Pregnant Seat Belt Warning Lamp Women AX WARNING + Pregnant women must wear a cor- rectly positioned seat belt. It is safer for mother as well as unborn child. + Pregnant women should wear the lap part of the seat belt across the 4” Cluster 7” & 10.25” Cluster belt is buckled. If any passenger seat is occupied by child (without child seat), system may detect occupancy and warn with seat belt warning. It is not taken to mean child can occupy any passenger seat and use seat belt. Please refer CRS section for recommended seating po- sition if child is sitting with child seat. Pelvic Bone and as snug across the Your vehicle is equipped with Seat Belt @ NOTE hips as possible. Keep the seat belt Reminder (SBR) for all occupants. low so that it does not come across the abdomen. That way the strong @ NOTE bones of the hips will take the force . wee « . a Whenever an occupant is not sitting in if there is a collision. . any

take the force . wee « . a Whenever an occupant is not sitting in if there is a collision. . any seating position then seat belt re- minder beeping sound will not be played in instrument cluster. If any material is kept on any seat then SBR beeping sound may be played in instrument cluster. Please do not keep any material on seat. + If the driver or any passenger do not fasten the seat belt, seat belt reminder lamp will blink and a buzzer will sound for pre-defined duration until the seat 12 Fitment of seat covers on any seating position is strictly prohibited. It may af- fect the function of occupant sensor.  Seat Belts With Pre — Tensioner (If equipped) You can use the pre-tensioner seat belts in the same manner as ordinary seat belts. The seat belt pre-tensioner system works in conjunction with the Supplementary Re- straints System (SRS-Airbags). In the event of a collision, as may be necessary, pre-tensioner tightens the seat belt so that it fits the occupant’s body more snugly.

be necessary, pre-tensioner tightens the seat belt so that it fits the occupant’s body more snugly. When pre-tensioner activates, there could be some noise and release of smoke. This is normal and there are no health hazards or fire risk. Seat Belt With Load Limiter (lf equipped) You can use the load limiter in the same manner as ordinary seat belts. The seat belt load limiter system works in conjunc- tion with the Supplementary Restraints System (SRS-Airbags). In the event of a collision, as may be necessary, load limiter reduces the load on the rib cage region of the occupant. If the vehicle has been involved in a colli- sion, get it inspected immediately at TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre. SAFETY 13  SAFETY Supplementary Restraint System (SRS - Airbags) The SRS [Supplemental Restraint system] is designed to provide protection to occupants in case of collision or sudden impact, when crash is detected, the SRS airbag system deploys airbags to help reduce the risk of injury to

when crash is detected, the SRS airbag system deploys airbags to help reduce the risk of injury to the occupant. It works in conjunction with seat belts. 14 There are 6 airbags provided in your car: Diver Airbag Front Passenger Airbag Side Airbag RH Side Airbag LH Curtain Airbag RH Curtain Airbag LH The driver airbag is mounted in the centre of the steering wheel. The front passenger airbag is located inside the dashboard in front of the passenger seat. The airbags have suitable indications on steering wheel and on dash board. QaPPReoNn > Side airbags are mounted in front row seats. Curtain airbags are mounted above the doors along the roof on both sides. The word ‘AIRBAG’ is marked at adjacent locations of respective airbags.  The ‘SRS’ system also comprises of the and occurs with considerable force, ac- SAFETY @ NOTE following components depending upon the provided safety features in vehicle. + Seat belt Pre-tensioners + Seat belt with load limiters + Airbag ‘SRS’ ECU (Electronic

vehicle. + Seat belt Pre-tensioners + Seat belt with load limiters + Airbag ‘SRS’ ECU (Electronic Control Unit) * Collision Sensors + SRS wiring harness * SRS Warning lamp The System is active when ignition switch is in the “ON” position or the ignition mode is “ON”. Airbags are designed to inflate in collisions when required. In the event of a collision, the collision sen- sors will detect signals, and if the Airbag ECU judges that the signals represent a severe collision, will trigger the airbags. The inflated Airbags provide a cushion to the occupants. The Airbag inflates and de- flates so quickly that you may not even re- alize that it has activated. The Airbag will neither hinder your view nor make it hurdle to exit the vehicle. companied by loud noise and smoke, which is normal. The inflated airbag, to- gether with seat belts, limit the movement of an occupant, thereby reducing the risk of injury. When an airbag inflates, you may see some smoke-like particles. The particles are

risk of injury. When an airbag inflates, you may see some smoke-like particles. The particles are a normal by-product of the process that generates the non-toxic gas used for airbag inflation. These airborne particles may irritate the skin, eyes, nose, or throat. If you have skin or eye irritation, rinse the area with water. For nose or throat irrita- tion, move to fresh air. Also sometimes the smoke can cause breathing problems, in such cases get fresh air promptly. After inflation, airbag provides a gradual cushioning effect for the occupant there- after deflates. It is not advisable to drive your vehicle after the airbags have been deployed. If you are involved in another collision, the airbags will not be in place to protect you. * Open your windows and doors as soon as possible after collision to re- duce prolonged exposure to the smoke and powder released by the inflating Airbag. * Do not touch the Airbag container’s internal components immediately after an Airbag has inflated.

* Do not touch the Airbag container’s internal components immediately after an Airbag has inflated. The parts that come into contact with an inflating Airbag may be very hot. + Always wash exposed skin areas thoroughly with lukewarm water and mild soap. A\ WARNING * Even in vehicle with airbags, you and your passengers must always wear the seat belts provided. In order to minimize the risk and sever- ity of injury in the event of a collision. + Ifan occupant is out of position dur- ing collision, the rapidly deploying Airbag may forcefully contact the Airbag inflation is virtually instantaneous 15  SAFETY occupant causing serious or fatal in- juries. A\ WARNING + Always use seat belts and CRS — during every trip and at all times. Even with airbags, you can be seri- ously injured or killed in a collision if you are not wearing seat belt prop- erly or not wearing seat belt when airbag inflates. * You and your passengers should never sit or lean unnecessarily close to the Airbags. + Move

* You and your passengers should never sit or lean unnecessarily close to the Airbags. + Move your seat as far back as pos- sible from front Airbags, while still maintaining control of the vehicle. + Alloccupants should sit upright with the seatback in an upright position, centred on the seat cushion with their seat belt on, legs comfortably extended and their feet on the floor until the vehicle is parked and the engine is turned off. 16 + Do not allow the front passenger to place their feet or legs on the dash- board. Passenger Airbag (PAB) Switch Passenger airbag switch is used to acti- vate and de-activate the passenger airbag in the vehicle. The switch is located on the left side of the dashboard and can be accessed once the co-driver side door is opened. PAB Switch ON: When an adult is seated in the front passenger seat, ensure that PAB switch is turned to ‘ON’ position. This will ensure that the passenger airbag is operational in the event of a collision. PAB Switch OFF: If

ensure that the passenger airbag is operational in the event of a collision. PAB Switch OFF: If rearward facing child seat needs to be installed on front passen- ger seat to carry the child then ensure PAB switch is turned OFF. This will ensure that the passenger airbag will remain de-acti- vated in the event of a collision. This switch can be operated by using me- chanical key / Key with remote / Smart key as per vehicle variants. Refer “Keys” sec- tion in this Manual. Passenger Airbag (PAB) Indicator Passenger airbag indicator is provided to notify an occupant, whether passenger airbag is activated (ON) or deactivated (OFF) in vehicle. PAB indicator is located on roof near roof lamp.  SAFETY Wrong Seating Positions PAB Indicator ON: When the PAB switch is Jia turned to ‘ON’ position to activate the airbag, ‘ON symbol & text’ will illuminate in amber color. PAB Indicator OFF: When the PAB switch is turned [Mua to ‘OFF’ posi- tion to deactivate the airbag, ‘OFF symbol & text’ will

PAB switch is turned [Mua to ‘OFF’ posi- tion to deactivate the airbag, ‘OFF symbol & text’ will illuminate in amber color. 17  18 Never place your arm over the airbag as a deploying airbag can re- sult in serious arm fractures or other injuries. Do not allow the passengers to lean their heads or bodies onto doors or place objects between the doors and passengers when they are seated on seats equipped with side and/or curtain Airbags. Do not place or stick any item/s in the vehicle, except at designated lo cations (such as utility bins, cup/bot- tle holders, boot space etc). Loose items may act as a projectile during a collision and cause severe to fatal injuries. Please be aware that any unse- cured item in your vehicle, such as your pet, unsecured CRS or a lap- top, can become a potential hazard in the event of a collision or sudden stop, causing injuries to occupants in the vehicle. Coat hooks (if provided), must be used only for that purpose. Never hang other items on to those

Coat hooks (if provided), must be used only for that purpose. Never hang other items on to those hooks. This could affect deployment of the Airbags, and may lead to severe to fatal injuries. Always contact your TATA MO- TORS Authorized Service Centre if the vehicle is damaged, even if airbag has not inflated or if any part of an airbag module cover shows sign of cracking or damage  ZX WARNING AX WARNING If your SRS malfunctions, the Airbag may not inflate properly during a colli- sion thereby increasing risk of serious injury or death. If any of the following conditions occur, your SRS is malfunc- tioning: * The SRS warning lamp does not turn ‘ON’ when the ignition switch is placed in the ‘ON’ position for few seconds. * The SRS warning lamp stays ‘ON’ after illuminating. * The SRS warning lamp comes ‘ON’/stays ‘ON’ while the vehicle is in motion. + The SRS warning lamp blinks when the engine is running. We recommend the customer to imme- diately visit TATA MOTORS Authorized Service

engine is running. We recommend the customer to imme- diately visit TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre and get the SRS system inspected if any of the above conditions occur. Never make any modifications to your vehicle. The modifications car- ried out, but not limited to the vehi- cle frame, bumpers, front fenders, ride height, suspension, seat belts, interior trims, steering wheel (espe- cially holders), are not acceptable. This will affect the intended perform- ance of SRS. Fitment of bull bars, seat covers on seats with airbags etc, is strictly pro- hibited. If you need to make any modifica- tions to accommodate any disability you may have, please contact your Authorized TATA MOTORS Dealer for necessary guidance. Do not tamper with SRS in any way. This will lead to unexpected per- formance of system and may cause serious injury or death. SAFETY Airbag Warning Sticker On Front Pas- senger Sun Visor The Airbag Warning Symbol on sun visor reminds of the extreme hazards associ- ated

senger Sun Visor The Airbag Warning Symbol on sun visor reminds of the extreme hazards associ- ated with the use of a rearward-facing child restraint on front passenger seat dur- ing airbag deployment. It does not mean that a child cannot occupy front passenger seat and use seat belt. Please refer CRS section for recommended seating position for children. 19  SAFETY AX WARNING Never use a rearward facing child re- straint on a seat protected by an active Airbag in front of it, Death or serious in- jury to the child can occur. Airbags Deployment Conditions When front airbags should not deploy? Minor frontal collision: Seat belt (if worn) offers adequate occupant protection in low severity collisions. The airbags are trig- gered only when there is a collision severe enough to trigger the airbags. Deployment of frontal airbags is not beneficial in low severity collisions. Side collision: During a side collision, oc- cupants tend to move sideways. There- fore, deploying frontal airbags in

a side collision, oc- cupants tend to move sideways. There- fore, deploying frontal airbags in such situations will not benefit the occupants. Side airbags and side curtain airbags are specifically designed to reduce the injuries that can occur in side collision. Rear collision: During a rear collision, oc- cupants tend to move (rearwards) away from frontal airbags. Therefore, deploying 20 frontal airbags in such situations will not protect the occupant. Head restraints and seat belts provide occupant protection dur- ing a rear collision. Rollovers collision: During a rollover col- lision, unbelted occupants may float inside the passenger compartment. This will in- crease the risk of injuries and may prove to be fatal. Wearing seat belts provide highly effective occupant protection during rollover collision. Front airbags, are not de- signed to deploy in a rollover as frontal airbags cannot offer any protection in rollover collision. When front airbags/side airbags/side curtain

cannot offer any protection in rollover collision. When front airbags/side airbags/side curtain airbags may not deploy with minor or no visible vehicle damage? The airbags are triggered only when there is a collision severe enough to trigger the airbags. The extent of vehicle damage is not always the correct indicator for airbag deployment. In some extreme/rare condi- tions of rough road driving, running into a curb or hitting other fixed objects the airbags may deploy depending upon the severity of collision. In some of these con- ditions, damage to the vehicle may be minor or not be readily visible. When front airbags/side airbags/side curtain airbags may not deploy, even with exterior visible vehicle damage? The airbags are triggered only when there is a collision severe enough to trigger the airbags. The amount of visible vehicle damage is not always the correct indicator for airbag deployment. Some collisions can result in visible damage but with no airbag deployment, because the

deployment. Some collisions can result in visible damage but with no airbag deployment, because the airbags would not have been needed or would not have provided protection even if they had deployed. Seat belts, if worn, offer ade- quate occupant protection in such cases.  Children On Board ZX WARNING + Do not leave unattended children in your vehicle. + During reversing and parking, en- sure that your children are far away from the vehicle. A\ WARNING + Donot put the safety seat belt under your child’s arm or behind its back. + Do not use pillows, books or towels to boost your child’s height. + Do not allow children to stand up or kneel on either the rear or the front seats. An unrestrained child could suffer serious or fatal injuries during a collision. + Do not install a booster seat or a booster cushion with a seat belt that is slack or twisted. Child Restraint System (CRS) TATA MOTORS strongly recommends the use of Child Restraint Systems (CRS) for all children up to 36 Kg and to

strongly recommends the use of Child Restraint Systems (CRS) for all children up to 36 Kg and to be placed at recommended positions only (Refer CRS Position table in this section). ISOFIX CRS can be installed in the vehicle using seat belts and/or ISOFIX with support leg (if equipped) or ISOFIX with Top Tether (if equipped). These ISOFIX attachment points are located on rear outboard seat- ing locations which enables quick and safe child seat engagement. Top Tether SAFETY 21  SAFETY Top Tether mounting anchorages are lo- cated at backside of rear outboard seats. The harness system of CRS holds the child in place, and in a collision, acts to keep the child positioned in the seat and reduce the risk of injuries. Keep children in a forward-facing or rear- ward facing CRS with a harness until they reach the size or age or weight limit rec- ommended by your CRS manufacturer. Selection and Installation of CRS Always select the CRS that complies with latest safety standards (AIS 072 / ECE 22

of CRS Always select the CRS that complies with latest safety standards (AIS 072 / ECE 22 R44 / ECE R129). The CRS are classified according to the child’s size, height and weight. Select the appropriate CRS for your child. Ensure that the child fits prop- erly in the CRS and it is securely installed in the vehicle. While installing the child seats always ad- here to the directions in this Owner’s Man- ual as well as those provided by the child seat’s manufacturer. Tata Motors recommends Joie i-Spin Safe i-Size child seats for up to 18 Kg chil- dren. These seats are available at TML dealerships. Tata Motors recommends to keep the highlighted device in close condition while using Joie i-Spin Safe child seat in car Installing The Child Seat On Front Pas- senger Seats + Adjust the front passenger seat back up to its vertical position as per re- quirement, so that it can create ade- quate contact between passenger seat backrest & child seat. + Adjust the front passenger seat for-  ward or

between passenger seat backrest & child seat. + Adjust the front passenger seat for-  ward or backward as per requirement, SAFETY passenger is sitting at that position. Recommended CRS Position so that there could not be any contact between front passenger seat & child seat or child present behind it. + If required, adjust the front passenger seat height to its suitable position. + While installing child seat on front pas- senger seating position, adjust the buckle to its suitable position of rota- tion. + While installing forward facing child seat for 15 to 18kg children on front passenger seating position, adjust the front passenger seat to its rearmost position. Installing The Child Seat On Rear Pas- senger Seats + If required, adjust the front seat so that there could not be any contact be- tween front seat & child seat or child present behind front seat. + While installing forward facing child seats adjust the rear seat head re- straints to its lowermost position or re- move it

facing child seats adjust the rear seat head re- straints to its lowermost position or re- move it if required & keep it at safe While installing child seats on rear out- board seating position, adjust their re- spective buckles to its required position of rotation. location to reinstall it whenever adult 23   SAFETY Recommended CRS Position As Per The Vehicle Matrix The suitability of seat position for carriage of children and recommended category of Recommended CRS Positions (CRS Fastened With A Safety Belt) Front Passen- Front Pas- CRS is shown in the table as per the child Group Mass ger with PAB. senger with Rear Out- Rear Out- Rear group. Group board LH board RH Centre NOTE OFF PAB ON ~ 0 vp te 10 U Xx U U Xx The child’s life is at risk in a collision if 9g the CRS is not properly secured in the o+ | Upto 13 U x U U x vehicle. Be sure to secure the child in kg the restraint system according to the | 9 to 18 U UF U U x manufacturer's instructions kg UF 15 to 25 Il UF UF U U x A\

according to the | 9 to 18 U UF U U x manufacturer's instructions kg UF 15 to 25 Il UF UF U U x A\ WARNING kg Do not use an infant carrier or a child lll 22 ° 36 UF UF U U x safety seat that “hooks” over a seat- g back, it will not provide adequate pro- —_x- seat Position not suitable for children in this mass group. tection in a collision. . . . a U: Suitable for “universal” category restraints approved for use in this mass group. UF: Suitable for forward facing “universal” category restraints approved for use in this mass group. 25  SAFETY Z\ CAUTION ACRS in a closed vehicle can become Recommended CRS Positions (CRS That Can Be Used With ISOFIX Sys- very hot. To prevent burns, check the tem) seating surface and buckles before placing your child in CRS. Front Rear Rear Grou Mass Category Of Out- Out- Rear Passen- A\ WARNING p Group Child Seat ear we ae Centre + Do not modify CRS in any way. Up to 10 kg E xX xX 0+ | Up to 13 kg C,D,E x IL IL x Z\ CAUTION iL iL | 9 to 18 k D, C, B,

any way. Up to 10 kg E xX xX 0+ | Up to 13 kg C,D,E x IL IL x Z\ CAUTION iL iL | 9 to 18 k D, C, B, B1,A x x + Do not install a booster seat or a ° q IUF IUF booster cushion with only the lap ll 15 to 25 kg x IL IL x strap of the seat belt or a seat belt that is slack or twisted. Il | 22 to 36 kg x IL IL x + Do not leave any toys or other ob- L: The seat is suitable for the ISOFIX child seats with “Semi-Universal” approval. jects loose in the CRS or on the seat while the vehicle is in motion. UF: The seat is suitable for forward facing child seats and is permitted for use in this weight category. X: The seat is not equipped for the ISOFIX system. *Rear outboard seating positions are suitable for ISO/R3, Class C CRS.  After a collision, we recommend to get seat belts, seats, ISOFIX and top-tether anchorages (as may be applicable) inves- tigated at TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre. Each CRS should be used for one child only. Passenger airbag can be turned OFF manually through

Each CRS should be used for one child only. Passenger airbag can be turned OFF manually through switch provided on side face of the dashboard at front passenger side. Visual signal of passenger airbag ON or OFF is indicated on the roof console. When passenger airbag is ON, a rearward facing child seat shall not be installed on the front passenger seat. When passenger airbag is OFF, a forward or rearward facing child seat can be in- stalled on the front passenger seat. While installing a rearward facing child seat on the front passenger seat, passen- ger airbag must be OFF. Refer images in PAB Switch section. WARNING If the airbag SRS warning indicator in the instrument cluster illuminates con- tinuously, it means that there is mal- function in the system. Remove the CRS from front passenger seat and contact your TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre. SAFETY 27  SAFETY Child Lock Child lock are provided on both rear doors. It is used for safety of a child. Child safety lever to be used

are provided on both rear doors. It is used for safety of a child. Child safety lever to be used for safety of child for preventing them to open rear door while seating in passenger seat to avoid accident while vehicle is moving. Both the rear doors of the vehicle are pro- vided with a child proof lock. Push the lock lever (located on vertical face of the door) downward before closing the door. The door which has been locked by activating the child lock cannot be opened from in- side. It can be opened only from the out- 28 side. NOTE Lift the lock lever upward to deactivate the childproof lock when not required. ANTI-LOCK BRAKING SYSTEM (ABS) ABS regulates brake pres- sure in such a way that the wheels do not lock when you brake. This allows you to continue steering the vehicle when braking. The ABS warn- ing lamp in the instrument cluster lights up when the ignition is switched on. It goes off after a few seconds if the system is healthy. ZX WARNING . If ABS is faulty, the wheels

It goes off after a few seconds if the system is healthy. ZX WARNING . If ABS is faulty, the wheels could lock when braking. The steer ability and braking characteristics may be severely impaired. There is an in- creased danger of skidding and ac- cidents. + Drive carefully. Have ABS checked immediately at a TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre as soon as possible.  1. While Braking + IfABS intervenes: continue to depress the brake pedal vigorously until the braking situation is over. To make a full brake application: de- press the brake pedal with full force. ZA\ CAUTION If ABS intervenes when braking, you will feel a pulsing in the brake pedal. The pulsating brake pedal can be an indica- tion of hazardous road conditions, and functions as a reminder to take extra care while driving. A\ WARNING + The stopping distance required for vehicles with ABS may be slightly more than conventional brake sys- tem but ABS will still offer the ad- vantage of helping you maintain directional

brake sys- tem but ABS will still offer the ad- vantage of helping you maintain directional control. ¢ However, remember that ABS will not compensate for bad road or weather conditions or poor driver judgment. Drive within safety mar- gins taking into consideration pre- vailing weather and __ traffic conditions. 2. Electronic Brake Force Distribution (EBD) EBD monitors and controls the brake pressure on the rear wheels to improve driv- ing stability while braking. EBD provides optimal braking pressure distribution between front and rear wheels to optimize braking distance and to ensure vehicle stability by means of lowering braking pressure at rear wheels. ¢- lf EBD is malfunctions, the rear wheels can lock under full braking. This increases the risk of skidding and accidents. * You should therefore adapt your driving style to the different handling characteristics. Have the brake sys SAFETY tem checked immediately at a TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Cen- tre as soon as possible. 3.

SAFETY tem checked immediately at a TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Cen- tre as soon as possible. 3. Electronic Stability Program (ESP) vehicle is deviating <<? from the direction de- sired by the driver, one or more wheels are braked to stabilize the vehicle. The engine output is also modified to keep the vehicle on the desired course within physical lim- its. ESP assists the driver when pulling away on wet or slippery roads. ESP can also stabilize the vehicle during braking and acceleration. A. Cornering Stability Control (CSC) Corner stability Control supports / stabi- lizes vehicle during partial braking on curves by reducing pressure at required inner wheel of the vehicle. ESP monitors driving stability and traction.If ESP detects that the This helps to reduce probability of vehicle over steering during cornering. 29  SAFETY B. Off Road ABS Based on wheel speed information off road ABS helps to avoid wheel lock on un- even surfaces like loose gravel, pot holes by reducing the

ABS helps to avoid wheel lock on un- even surfaces like loose gravel, pot holes by reducing the stopping distance com- pared to standard ABS. C. Electronic Traction Control (ETC) The Electronic Traction Control system function (ETC) is designed as a slip control system to prevent the driven wheels of a vehicle from excessive wheel slip. D. Roll Over Mitigation (ROM) The main feature of the Roll over Mitiga- tion function is the detection of a rollover critical situation and to prevent the vehicle rollover. This is done by active brake inter- ventions on selected wheels, thereby re- ducing the forces that cause a roll-over situation. E. Brake Disc Wiping (BDW) Water on the brake disc leads to a delay in brake response time. The purpose of the function Brake Disc wiping is to re- move moisture when driving in wet condi- tions automatically. To get quick response 30 form Brake and better deceleration. F. Electronic Brake Pre-fill (EBP) The Electronic Brake Prefill (EBP) function reduces

F. Electronic Brake Pre-fill (EBP) The Electronic Brake Prefill (EBP) function reduces the air gap of the brake pad and the brake disc. The function is triggered after a sudden release of the accelerator pedal due to an unexpected emergency brake situation. By actively prefilling the brake-system the brake response time is reduced and results in a shorter stopping distance. G. Hydraulic Brake Assist (HBA) In a dangerous emergency situation, most drivers don’t use the full available perform- ance of the brake system, because they brake too soft. The HBA function detects the critical situation and builds up addi- tional brake pressure to reduce the brak- ing distance. H. Hydraulic Fading Compensation (HFC) In dangerous fading situations most driv- ers operate the brake pedal with a small or regular braking force and they never reach to the maximum possible vehicle de- celeration. The HFC function improve the stopping distance by eliminating required pressure build-up lag by the driver.

function improve the stopping distance by eliminating required pressure build-up lag by the driver. |. Dynamic Wheel Torque By Brake (DWT-B) The main goal of the function is to improve the agility of a vehicle and to enable a more direct steering. This is mainly achieved by braking interventions at the inner wheels during turning. DWT-B re- duces understeer tendency of the car and a higher curve speed can be achieved. J. Engine Drag Torque Control (EDTC) On slippery road conditions during in- gear Braking or Shift down of gear or sudden throttle release on a curve road. This causes high Engine drag on the driven wheel resulting into brake slip situ- ations without any brake application. This makes vehicle highly under steerable. EDTC controls such brake slip on the driven wheels by increasing the engine torque to makes the vehicle stable and steerable. K. Hill Hold Control (HHC) Hill Hold Control is a comfort function. The  SAFETY main intend is to prevent the vehicle from rolling

Hold Control is a comfort function. The  SAFETY main intend is to prevent the vehicle from rolling backwards while driving off up-hill on an inclined surface. L. Panic Brake Alert (PBA) + Panic brake alert warns surrounding vehicles when emergency or heavy braking takes place. The function will trigger Hazard lamps automatically, which will act as an immediate warning to vehicles directly behind and nearby. + PBAis an immediate and urgent warn- ing to all vehicles around thus improv- ing their response time to unforeseen braking situations + PBA can help reduce accidents through effective warning to surround- ing traffic during emergency Braking + With PBA, surrounding drivers and ve- hicles have more time to respond against slowdown vehicles + Reducing the amount and degree of injuries caused by rear end collisions that occur during heavy braking. + PBAprovides additional warning to im- prove road safety. M. After Impact Braking (AIB) + In the event of primary collision there are

im- prove road safety. M. After Impact Braking (AIB) + In the event of primary collision there are chances that vehicle can no longer be safely controlled. Accident analysis has shown that an active brake inter- vention would mitigate the effect of the subsequent collisions. + After impact braking system is acti- vated automatically and brakes the car in a safe manner to mitigate secondary collision. + Hazard & brake lights are triggered to intimate surrounding users of an emer- continue flashing after vehicle comes to a standstill. The driver can override the system by depressing the brake/acc pedal if there is a risk of being hit by following traffic. The basic assumption is that the brake system is intact after the primary im- pact. Mitigate impact/severity of subsequent collisions. gency situation. Warning lights will 31  SAFETY ANTI-THEFT DEVICE IMMOBILIZER Immobilizer system is designed to prevent vehicle theft by electronically disabling the engine ignition system. The engine

to prevent vehicle theft by electronically disabling the engine ignition system. The engine can be started only with vehicle’s original Immobi- lizer ignition key which has an electronic identification programmed code. @ NOTE Use only Flip key, the other should be kept in a safe location. Note down “key Tag no.” information (and keep it safe) which is required while getting new/spare keys. Remember that it is not possible to prepare new/spare keys without the “key Tag number.” Take pre- caution about Flip key, as without Flip key vehicle cannot be started. 32 Vehicle Immobilized and awaiting electronic gnition OFF Blinking Locked key gnition ON OFF Unlocked Normal condition and ready to start the vehi- + Problem with key (Wrong key used to start vehicle) gnition ON ON Locked [+ Problem with Immobilizer system. Con- tact a TATA MOTORS Authorized Serv- ice Centre. gnition ON Blinking Unlocked Contact a TATA MOTORS Authorized Serv- ice Centre immediately.  KEYS A key is an electronic

Contact a TATA MOTORS Authorized Serv- ice Centre immediately.  KEYS A key is an electronic access and authori- zation system available as a standard fea- ture with your vehicle. Unlocking Principle The transponder in the ignition key carries a Unique Identification Code (UID). The vehicle unlocks when the code on the key matches with the code on the Engine Man- agement System (EMS). In case of PEPS variant, Immobilizer function is provided by PEPS ECU. Engine Starting When the key is inserted and the ignition is switched to ‘ON’, all codes are commu- nicated within key, Immobilizer and EMS. The engine will start only if all the codes match. Loss of Keys If one of the keys is lost, Contact the TATA MOTORS Authorized Dealer/Service Cen- ter immediately. AX WARNING + Do not turn ‘ON’ ignition switch by using key with any type of metal wound around its grip or in contact with it. This may be detected as ab- normal condition by immobilizer and prevent engine from starting. + Donot leave

be detected as ab- normal condition by immobilizer and prevent engine from starting. + Donot leave the key in high temper- ature areas. The transponder in it will behave abnormally when reused. + Do not try to start the vehicle when the Immobilizer indicator lamp on the instrument cluster is glowing. In this condition the vehicle will not start and the vehicle’s battery will also be drained due to frequent cranking. OPENING AND CLOSING 33  OPENING AND CLOSING TYPES of KEYS Sn Name 1. |Mechanical key Remote Key Description Locking all doors Unlocking all doors 2. |Flip key with remote PON > Folding key blade in/out Locking all doors Approach light/Tail gate opening Unlocking all doors 3. |Smart Key (PEPS) PON > Locking all doors Approach light Tail gate opening Unlocking all doors 34  Flip Key With Remote = Folding key blade IN/OUT Locking all doors Approach Light (Tail gate unlatch/Fol- low Me/Trunk Lid -If equipped) 4. Unlocking all doors Folding Key Blade IN/OUT Press button (1) to

low Me/Trunk Lid -If equipped) 4. Unlocking all doors Folding Key Blade IN/OUT Press button (1) to flip out the key blade. For folding, press the button (1) and fold the key blade inside. wn Key blade should not be folded without pressing the button. Also, it should not be forced in any direction apart from folding direction to avoid damage to Flip Mechanism. Locking All Doors To lock all doors, press lock push button (2) once. Locking will be confirmed by two flashes of turn indicators. If lock button is pressed on the remote key with the driver door open, locking unlock- OPENING AND CLOSING ing takes place with audible warning sound. If any other door is open, the vehi- cle gets locked but indicators do not flash. Approach Light Press approach light button (3) once, low beam, park and roof lamp will turn ‘ON’ for 60 seconds (default setting). This feature helps to find and reach the parked vehicle or to reach home in dark/ cloudy condition after parking. Red LED will be flashed on

parked vehicle or to reach home in dark/ cloudy condition after parking. Red LED will be flashed on the remote. To switch ‘OFF’ the approach lights, press and release the same button or it automatically turns ‘OFF’ after 60 sec- onds. Tail Gate unlatch/Follow Me/Trunk Lid (if equipped) Electric tail gate opening can be done through long press (4 sec) approach light button on remote key. Tail gate once unlatched will not get lock automatically with doors. It will get locked by slamming. 35  OPENING AND CLOSING Unlocking All Doors Pressing the unlock button (4) of remote will unlock all the doors. One flash is com- ing on side indicators. Manual Operation of Central Door Locking / Unlocking All doors can be locked / unlocked operat- ing driver door using either key blade from outside or knob from inside. 36 Flip Key Features Vehicle Search In vehicle, locked condition if lock button on remote key is pressed the turn indica- tors of vehicle flashes for 4 times. Automatic Activation of

remote key is pressed the turn indica- tors of vehicle flashes for 4 times. Automatic Activation of Immobilizer If key is removed from ignition switch, the engine will be immobilized automatically even if you forget to lock the vehicle. For few variant, Ignition off is required to immobilize the vehicle. Auto Locking / Unlocking of Doors / Auto Relock Vehicle doors are automatically locked + When all doors are closed and the ve- hicle speed crosses 13 kmph. + When key is taken out all the doors get automatically unlocked. * For few variant, when ignition is turned off all the doors get automatically un- locked. + When unlocked with remote key and if no door is opened within 30 seconds, vehicle doors get automatically locked. Anti-grab / Anti-scan Coding The remote control set of this security sys- tem is protected against the use of devices called ‘scanners’ and ‘grabbers’ which can record and reproduce some types of re- mote codes. Important Don’t operate unlock push-button of re-

and reproduce some types of re- mote codes. Important Don’t operate unlock push-button of re- mote while in the vicinity of your vehicle, as it could lead to an unintentional unlock- ing of vehicle. Don’t use discharged bat- teries in remote, as it could damage the remote. For battery replacement proce- dure refer maintenance section. Don’t re- move the battery connection of the vehicle while the vehicle has been locked by re- mote. @ NOTE In case any button of the key is acciden- tally pressed for more than 20 seconds, the remote stops functioning till the time the button is pressed. The LED on the Remote also stops glowing. The func- tion of the remote gets reinstated imme- diately when the user stops pressing  the push button of remote. Vehicle Alarm & Security To prevent automobile thefts, the anti-theft system makes use of an anti-theft alarm (ATA). On detection of any unauthorized access, the BCM triggers the horn (acoustic alarm) and flashes the turn indi- cators. Smart Key

access, the BCM triggers the horn (acoustic alarm) and flashes the turn indi- cators. Smart Key (PEPS)(if equipped) Keep the smart key with user to perform the passive access. It is used for locking, unlocking and starting the vehicle. 1. Locking all doors 2. Approach Light 3. Tail gate opening 4. Unlocking all doors Locking All Doors Press the lock button once (1) to lock all the doors of the vehicle. Successful lock will be indicated by two flashes of turn sig- OPENING AND CLOSING nal indicators. If lock button is pressed on the key with the any door open, locking- unlocking takes place with audible warning indicators do not flash. Approach Light This feature helps to find and reach the parked vehicle. When you press approach light button (2) once, low beam, roof lamp and position lamps will turn ‘ON’. This fea- ture helps to find and reach the parked ve- hicle or to reach home in dark/ cloudy condition after parking. To switch ‘OFF’ the approach lights, press and release the same

cloudy condition after parking. To switch ‘OFF’ the approach lights, press and release the same button or it automatically turns ‘OFF’ after approx. 30 sec. Tail Gate Opening Press the tail gate opening button once (3) to unlock the tailgate with in authentication range of Smart key i.e. 1 to 1.5 meters. Unlocking All Doors Press the unlock button once (4) to unlock all the doors. Successful unlock will be in- dicated by one flashes of turn signal indi- cators. 37  OPENING AND CLOSING @ NOTE If smart key battery is low/drained or ve- hicle battery is low/drained, user can unlock and enter into vehicle by using mechanical key blade, which is present inside the smart key. Emergency Key Blade IN / OUT QO Slide the knob (1) to release the key. Pul he key blade (2) out. 38 Smart Key Features Vehicle Search In vehicle locked condition, if lock button on smart key is pressed, the turn indica- tors of vehicle flashes 4 times. In vehicle locked condition, if lock button on smart key is

tors of vehicle flashes 4 times. In vehicle locked condition, if lock button on smart key is pressed, the turn indicators of vehi- cle flashes 4 times. Automatic Activation of Immobilizer If smart key is not found within the passen- ger compartment, engine will be immobi- lized and vehicle cannot start. If smart key is not found within the passenger compart- ment, engine will be immobilized and ve- hicle cannot start. Auto Locking / Unlocking Of Doors / Auto Relock In PEPS variants, door will get unlocked when ignition is OFF by pressing Start Stop switch. In PEPS variants, door will get unlocked when ignition is OFF by pressing Start Stop switch. Anti-grab / Anti-scan Coding The remote control set of this security sys- tem is protected against the use of devices called ‘scanners’ and ‘grabbers’ which can record and reproduce some types of re- mote codes. Important Tips + Don’t operate Unlock button of remote in the vicinity of your vehicle, as it could lead to an unintentional

Unlock button of remote in the vicinity of your vehicle, as it could lead to an unintentional unlock- ing your vehicle. + For battery, replacement procedure refer ‘MAINTENANCE’ section. * Do not remove the battery connection of the vehicle while the vehicle has been locked by remote.  OPENING AND CLOSING Smart Key Precautions 1. If smart key is close to radio transmitter such as radio station or an airport which can interfere with normal opera- tion of the transmitter. 2. If smart key is near a mobile two way radio system or a cellular phone, then it will not work properly. 3. If another vehicle’s smart key is being operated close to your vehicle, signal will fluctuate. @ NOTE Keep smart key away from electromag- netic materials that blocks electromag- netic waves to the key surface. Force Panic ON Operation When vehicle is in OFF condition, if we press lock button and unlock button simul- taneously, Force panic operation gets ac- tivated. In this case, turn indicators of vehicle

simul- taneously, Force panic operation gets ac- tivated. In this case, turn indicators of vehicle start flashing and horn will blow au- tomatically. When vehicle is in OFF condi- tion, if we press lock button and unlock button simultaneously, Force panic opera- tion gets activated. In this case, turn indi- cators of vehicle start flashing and horn will blow automatically. Force Panic OFF Operation By pressing any button of smart key, Force panic operation gets deactivated. DOORS Option 1- Door Locking / Unlocking with Key from Outside Driver / co-driver doors can be locked or unlocked from outside using the key blade. Insert the key and turn it clockwise to lock and anticlockwise to unlock the door. 39  OPENING AND CLOSING Option 2 - Door Locking / Unlocking using Door Handle Switch (DHS) from outside To lock/unlock all the doors without oper- ating smart key button/ key blade. Press the door handle switch (DHS) provided on the driver door to lock/unlock all the four doors except

the door handle switch (DHS) provided on the driver door to lock/unlock all the four doors except Tail gate. NOTE + Authentication range for smart key shall be 1 to 1.5 meters from outside the respective door or tail gate. 40 + Passive entry only works during ig- nition off. Option 3 - Remote Key [central Lock] To lock/unlock all doors from remote but- ton press the lock unlock button on remote key. Horn Honking when Door Locking using Door Handle Switch (DHS) If vehicle is in unlock condition and smart key is not available, (i.e. Smart Key is present away from authentication range) and if you try to lock the vehicle through door handle switch then vehicle horn honking gets activated for 9 sec. If vehicle is in unlock condition and Smart key is present inside the vehicle. If you try to press the door handle switch then vehi- cle horn honking gets activated for 9 sec. Locking / Unlocking The Doors From Inside All doors can be opened from inside by pressing knob on driver door and inde-

The Doors From Inside All doors can be opened from inside by pressing knob on driver door and inde- pendently on other doors.  Pull the door opening knob (1) and then opening lever (2). There is a single pull override feature on driver door. All door can be unlocked by inner handle without operating lock knob of inner handle. OPENING AND CLOSING NOTE Power windows can be operated for 30 seconds in ‘IGN OFF’ and ‘KEY OUT’ positions, provided the doors are closed. WINDOWS Power Windows Express Up Window glass can be closed by single pull of the switch. Express up feature is pro- vided for the driver’s door only. Anti-Pinch Function Front RH Switch Front LH Switch Rear RH Switch Rear LH Switch Inhibit Switch Window glasses on all four doors can be operated by switches provided on the main control panel located on the driver's e arm rest. They work only when the key is — The Anti-pinch function will stop window in the ‘IGN ON’ position. upward movement if any obstruction or re- aPPoONnN

will stop window in the ‘IGN ON’ position. upward movement if any obstruction or re- aPPoONnN SD aA  OPENING AND CLOSING sistance detected. Thus, it gives full and reliable protection for hand, neck etc. Anti-pinch function is pro- vided for driver door only. Anti-pinch Inhibition After 3 successive anti-pinch reversals with less than 5 seconds delay between each reversal in switch operated mode, Anti-pinch function shall be de-activated until complete closed condition is de- tected. Express Down Window glass can be opened by a single long press of the switch. Express down feature is provided for the driver’s door only. 42 Inhibit Switch Inhibit Switch ON When switch is pressed, amber light turns ‘OFF’. The individual switches provided on rear and front passenger door can be op- erated. It can also be operated from the switches on driver’s arm rest. Inhibit Switch OFF When switch is pressed, amber light turns ‘ON’. The individual switches provided on rear and front passenger door

pressed, amber light turns ‘ON’. The individual switches provided on rear and front passenger door cannot be operated. Still it can be operated from the switches on driver’s arm rest.  A\ WARNING Individual Switches If children operate the windows they could get trapped, particularly if they are left unsupervised. There is also a risk of injury. Activate the window inhibit feature when children are travelling. When leaving the vehicle, always take the key with you and lock the vehicle. Never leave children unsupervised in the vehicle. ndividual switch has been provided on all doors. Glasses are wound up or down by pulling or pressing the switch. To close the glass pull the switch in up- ward direction. OPENING AND CLOSING To open the glass press the switch in downward direction. Manual Window Winding Use window winder handle for lowering or raising up window glasses manually where power windows are not provided. 23  OPENING AND CLOSING BONNET AND FUEL LID Bonnet Opening 1. Make sure

windows are not provided. 23  OPENING AND CLOSING BONNET AND FUEL LID Bonnet Opening 1. Make sure that the vehicle is in neutral and the parking brake is engaged. 2. Pull the bonnet release lever. The bon- net will pop up slightly. 3. Raise the bonnet slightly and with your finger slide the secondary lock lever @ NOTE Z\ CAUTION Make sure that the wiper arms are not Insert the stay rod into the hole se- raised before you lift up the bonnet to curely. If the rod drops off, your body avoid damaging the wiper arms and the may be caught below the bonnet. bonnet. Bonnet Closing 4. Lift the bonnet up. Pullthe bonnet stay + rod from its clip and insert the free end into the slot provided on frame. . To close the bonnet, hold the bonnet by one hand, disengage the stay rod and clamp it back properly. 2. Lower the bonnet close to the bumper, then let it drop down. 44  WARNI Ensure that the bonnet is properly locked before driving or it can fly up un- expectedly during driving. Fuel Lid To

is properly locked before driving or it can fly up un- expectedly during driving. Fuel Lid To release the fuel lid, pull the lever lo- cated at the right hand side below the driver seat. For opening, open the fuel lid, turn the fuel cap counter clockwise. For closing, turn the fuel cap clockwise and gently push the fuel lid till it gets locked. WARNING Fuel vapor is extremely hazardous. Always switch ‘OFF’ the engine be- fore refueling and never refill near sparks or open flames. Do not use cell phone when you fill fuel. Do not continue adding fuel after the automatic shut ‘OFF’ function is op- erated if it is equipped on the fuel station. Overfilling the fuel tank OPENING AND CLOSING could damage the fuel system. To fill up the fuel, the Engine must be stopped by turning OFF the Igni- tion Key / Start-Stop button. If the Engine is in Idle Stop Start (ISS) mode, it may restart automatically while filling the fuel. Remove the fuel filler cap slowly, and wait for any hissing to stop.

while filling the fuel. Remove the fuel filler cap slowly, and wait for any hissing to stop. The fuel may be under pressure and may spray out. If fuel cap needs replacement, make sure that it is replaced by a genuine cap at the TATA MOTORS Author- ized Service Centre. 45  OPENING AND CLOSING TAIL GATE OPENING Option Image Option | Long press approach light button on remote, as unlatching sound is heard Using Flip Key from tail gate, release the button. To close, slam the tail gate to latch and it gets locked Option II Press a tail gate opening button on remote and release. To close, slam Using PEPS Key the tail gate to latch and it gets locked. Note: vehicle to be in authentication range To open the tail gate, press the switch located on fascia switch. To close, Option III slam the tail gate to latch and it gets locked. Through Fascia switch Note: If vehicle is in locked condition then tail gate unlatch via fascia switch will work only in ignition ON condition. a DHS switch on tail

tail gate unlatch via fascia switch will work only in ignition ON condition. a DHS switch on tail gate is pressed with valid key in the authentication Option IV range, the tail gate gets unlatched. To close, slam the tail gate to latch P then it gets locked. If the valid smart key is left inside the trunk then tail gate gets unlocked. 46  AX WARNI Emergency Tailgate Opening After unlatching, tailgate doesn’t get opened automatically. Tailgate should not be opened holding tailgate garnish, this might damage the part. It is suggested to open through tailgate edge. Tailgate can’t be locked using Mechan- ical Key/Flip Key/Smart Key. It can only be locked by slamming it. In case of electrical malfunction, you can unlock the tailgate from inside as per pro- cedure given below: 1. Fold the rear seat to access the tail- gate opening knob. 2. Open the knob cover. 3. Pull out the knob to open the tailgate. OPENING AND CLOSING a7  48  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER DIGITAL DISPLAY (4” Inch) 4” Inch Display

tailgate. OPENING AND CLOSING a7  48  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER DIGITAL DISPLAY (4” Inch) 4” Inch Display Option | DRIVER INFORMATION SYSTEM TACHOMETER TEMPERATURE GAUGE TRIP METERA&B SPEEDOMETER FUEL GAUGE ODOMETER 49  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER 4” Inch Display Option II DRIVER INFORMATION SYSTEM TACHOMETER € => GRSSPSRISVROGOOSHS TRIP METERA& B SPEEDOMETER ODOMETER 50 TEMPERATURE GAUGE FUEL GAUGE  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Speedometer The Speedometer Indicates the actual vehicle speed in km/h At every key IN and Ignition ON, the speedome- ter Bar moves to MAX and return to ‘0’ position. This is welcome strategy and self-check feature Tachometer Tachometer indicates the engine speed in revolu- tions per minute. Whenever engine is accelerated beyond safe RPM, tachometer Bar Indication turns RED. In such case, reduce the engine RPM immediately. Never drive the vehicle with engine in high RPM. This may cause severe engine damage. Odometer Odometer Indicates distance traveled by vehicle. The odometer reading

engine damage. Odometer Odometer Indicates distance traveled by vehicle. The odometer reading does not return to 0 when maximum value is reached, the display will freeze to maximum value. Fuel Gauge When the ignition switch is in “ON” position, fuel gauge gives an approximate indication of the amount of fuel in the fuel tank. “F” stands for full and “E” stands for Empty. When fuel in the tank is near to empty position, low fuel warning telltale turns Amber. Refill the tank as . soon as possible. At every key in and Ignition ON, Fuel Gauge Bar move to F and come back to E position. This is wel- come strategy. On inclines, curves, during braking and sudden acceleration due to the movement of fuel in the tank, the fuel level display may fluctuate or the low fuel level warning lamp may turns ON/OFF earlier or delayed than usual. When the ignition switch is in “ON” position, this gauge gives an approximate indication of the amount of fuel in the fuel tank and it takes few seconds to

gives an approximate indication of the amount of fuel in the fuel tank and it takes few seconds to stabilize after the ignition is turned ON. 51  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER When the ignition switch is in the “ON” position, this gauge indicates the engine coolant temperature. The indicator should be within normal, acceptable temperature range i.e., between “H” and “C”. If the indicator approaches “H”, overheating is indicated by red LED bar in case of 4”. The RED bar and High Coolant temp warning telltale indicates overheating that may damage the engine. If the coolant temperature reading is very high, The Engine coolant temperature telltale flashes with an audible buzzer. In this case, stop the vehicle, switch ‘OFF’ the engine and cool it down for some time. Contact a nearest TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Temperature an . . . ~ . [aa Continuing to drive the vehicle when engine over- Centre immediately for rectification. Gauge ran . . heating is indicated can result in severe engine dam- age

for rectification. Gauge ran . . heating is indicated can result in severe engine dam- age or fire. Instantaneous Updates display “Instantaneous Fuel consumption Maintain INST FE bar graph above 15 km/l to Fuel Economy at regular time interval in bar graph. achieve better fuel economy. Trip MeterA & B Trip Meter A Trip A Indicates distance traveled by vehicle since last reset within the range of 0 km to 9999.9 km with the resolution of 0.1 km. Trip Meter B Trip B Indicates distance traveled by vehicle since|° last reset within the range of 0 km to 9999.9 km with the resolution of 0.1 km. Trip Acan be RESET to 0 by pressing Set switch when display is in a TRIP A mode. Trip B can be RESET to 0 by pressing Set switch when display is in a TRIP A mode. 52  Driver Information System INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Service reminder This indicates how many days/kilometres are left until service is due. If service is overdue, it will display “O” km or “0” days and a spanner symbol will blink every time

service is overdue, it will display “O” km or “0” days and a spanner symbol will blink every time igni- tion is ON for a few seconds. Never reset the display be- tween service intervals as it may give incorrect readings. The information is retained in the service interval display even after the vehicle battery is disconnected. NOTE:1. This option is for indicative purpose only. Keep track of your odometer reading and follow the mainte- nance schedule. 2. Spanner symbol will be continuously “ON” when service is overdue. Gear Recommendation Up or down arrow will be displayed on DIS to shift a gear up or down. No arrow shall be displayed when the selected gear is as per the Vehicle dynamics. NOTE: Following the recommended Gear shall result into a better Fuel Economy. Door Ajar (if equipped) All four door and trunk lid are indicated independently when respective door or trunk lid is open. NOTE: If any other door is open roof lamp will be ‘ON’ pro- vided that roof lamp switch is in ON

NOTE: If any other door is open roof lamp will be ‘ON’ pro- vided that roof lamp switch is in ON position. 53  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Door Ajar (if equipped) This warning will be indicated when driver door is open. NOTE: If any other door is open roof lamp will be ‘ON’ pro- vided that roof lamp switch is in ON position. Outside Ambient Temperature Displays outside ambient temperature in °C. NOTE: The temperature sensor is in the front bumper of he vehicle, therefore the temperature reading can be af- ected by heat reflection from the road surface, engine heat and the exhaust from surrounding traffic. This can cause an incorrect temperature reading when speed is under low speeds or when stopped. if display shows ‘- - ‘, take your car to TATA MOTORS Au- horized Service Centre. Clock When the ignition switch is in the “ON” position, it shows he time 12 Hour or in 24 Hours mode as per selection. Note: 7. You can do clock settings in Infotainment system when Infotainment is present in the

Note: 7. You can do clock settings in Infotainment system when Infotainment is present in the vehicle. 2. Whenever the battery terminals or related fuses are dis- connected and reconnected user must reset the clock time. This feature is available when ignition switch is in ON position. 54  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Drive Mode (AMT) Ly A = ht “M’ indicates Manual Drive mode. “A” indicated Automatic Drive mode. Current Gear Indication IN - Neutral - Reverse Current gear engaged by the transmission shall be dis- played on DIS. This feature is applicable to both AMT and Manual transmission variant. In case of Manual transmission, the gear display is as per the User selection. IN case of AMT, the display is as per the Automatic selected gear. Note: /f is displayed, it means ‘Fault’ condition. In such case, take vehicle to authorized TATA MOTORS Au- thorized service Centre. In case of Manual Transmission the Gear number will be displayed when the clutch is fully released. Rotate Steering “ROTATE

the Gear number will be displayed when the clutch is fully released. Rotate Steering “ROTATE STEERING” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 sec- onds when electronic steering column is in locked state. Rotate Steering slightly (left or right) to unlock it. Note: If text warning “ROTATE STEERING’ is displayed even after rotating the steering, it means ‘Faulty’ condition. In such case, take vehicle to authorized TATA MOTORS Au- thorized Service Centre. 55  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Transmission Overheat Indication for DCA fea- ture (if Equipped) Illuminates momentarily when ignition is switched ‘ON’. Illuminates continuously when there is a High Temperature of Dual Clutch Transmission System. Contact a TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre im- mediately. Front & Rear Seat Belt Indicator If any driver, Co-Driver and Passenger is present and seat belt is not buckled and IGN is ON then Telltale will be ON as initial warning with No audio chime. If any driver, Co-Driver and Passenger seat belt remains

ON as initial warning with No audio chime. If any driver, Co-Driver and Passenger seat belt remains unbuckled and vehicle speed goes above 15 km/ hr, then Seat belt telltale will also start flashing along with audio alarm during Final Warning. Note: Once the seatbelt are fastened the buzzer and warning lamp turns OFF. Seatbelt reminder remains OFF when re- verse gear is engaged. Gear Display (For DCA if equipped) Current gear engaged by the transmission shall be dis- played on Display Screen along with D. This feature is ap- plicable to Dual clutch transmission variant. Note: nr | is displayed, it means ‘Fault’ condition. In such case, take vehicle to a TATA MOTORS Authorized service Centre. 56  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Key batt low “KEY BATT LOW’ text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds (for PEPS ) when UID key battery is low. Key out of range “KEY OUT OF RANGE’ text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 (for PEPS ) seconds when UID key is not inside the vehicle. Press Clutch (for PEI PS ) “PRESS CLUTCH”

PEPS ) seconds when UID key is not inside the vehicle. Press Clutch (for PEI PS ) “PRESS CLUTCH” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when clutch is not pressed to crank the vehicle. Note: This text warning is applicable for MT vehicle. Press Brake (for PEI PS ) “PRESS BRAKE” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when BRAKE is not pressed to crank the vehicle. Note: This text warning is applicable for AMT/AT vehicle. Service due SERVICE QUE “SERVICE DUE” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when service is overdue. Low brake fluid LOW BRAKE FLUTS “LOW BRAKE FLUID” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 sec- onds when brake fluid is low. “LOW FUEL’ text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when CU Crp ee Low fuel LOW FUEL low fuel warning telltale comes ‘ON’ and fuel level is low. “OVER SPEED?” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds Over speed OVER SPEED when display speed crosses 120 Km/Hr. 57  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER “TAKE A BREAK’ text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when driver drives continuously

CLUSTER “TAKE A BREAK’ text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when driver drives continuously for prolonged duration. Note: “TAKE A BREAK” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds again with specific duration if vehicle is not stopped and continuously driven. Take a break “ENGINE LOCKED” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 sec- Engine locked = > OCKMET — g LOCKED onds when engine is unable to crank. “UNABLE TO RESUME” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 Unable to resume f oo ; seconds when cruise function is unable to resume/acti- (if equipped) vate. Cruise off “CRUISE OFF” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds (if equipped) when cruise function is deactivated. Cruise cancelled “CRUISE CANCELLED” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 (if equipped) seconds when cruise function is cancelled by user. “CRUISE RESUME” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 sec- Cruise resume : oar onds when cruise function is resume. (if equipped) “CRUISE OVERRIDE” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 sec- Cruise Override : ean - onds when

equipped) “CRUISE OVERRIDE” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 sec- Cruise Override : ean - onds when cruise function is override by user. (if equipped) Happy Birthday “HAPPY BIRTHDAY” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 sec- (if equipped) onds on owner’s birthday. HDC Active “HDC ACTIVE” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds (if equipped) when hill descent control function is active. 58  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER HDC deactivate (if equipped) “HDC DEACTIVE?” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when hill descent control function is deactivated. TPMS ERROR VISIT SERV CENT - Text Warning TPMS ERROR VISIT SERV CENT” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when iTPMS system malfunction Don’t Press Brake and Accelerator Together - Text Warning (For AMT vehicle) (if equipped) “DONT PRESS BRAKE AND ACC TOGETHER’ text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when user press the brake and accelerator simul- taneously. TURN IGN OFF AND ON AGAIN - Text Warn- ing (if equipped) “TURN IGN OFF AND ON AGAIN” text warning comes

IGN OFF AND ON AGAIN - Text Warn- ing (if equipped) “TURN IGN OFF AND ON AGAIN” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when DCT Auth failure warning is pres- ent. DCA FAULT - Text Warning (if equipped) “DCA FAULT” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when failure detected in DCT System STAY IN D FOR 20 S - Text Warning (if equipped) “STAY IN D FOR 20 S” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 sec- onds to inform user to stay vehicle in Drive mode for 20sec DCA HIGH TEMP - Text Warning (if equipped) “DCA HIGH TEMP” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when DCT temp reached above threshold value SHIFT DENIED - Text Warning (if equipped) “SHIFT DENIED” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when user selected gear denied from DCT system 59  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER AUTO MODE -Text Warning (if equipped) “AUTO MODE’ text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 Seconds when AUTO MODE is activated in DCT system. AMT FAULT - Text Warning (if equipped) “AMT FAULT” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when failure detected

Text Warning (if equipped) “AMT FAULT” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when failure detected in AMT System. ESP off “ESP OFF” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when ESP is made off. FILL AIR RESET SYS- TEM- Text Warning (if equipped) FILL AIR RESET SYSTEM” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when Tyre pressure Low Detected by iTPMS. TPMS - Tyre Pressure Monitor- ing System (if equipped) Tyre pressure information for individual tyre with pressure values will be displayed with “psi” unit on DIS if tyre pres- sure is within defined range. 23 isi 32 ac AS Sag fac —™ psi Tyre pressure value of respective Tyre and Tyre symbol will blink if Tyre pressure is low. Tyre pressure values will be displayed with “psi” unit for remaining tyres “CHECK TYRE“ for 1s and “PRESSURE” for another 1s text warning comes ON for 2cycle within 4secs if Tyre pressure is LOW. 60  INSTRU MENT CLUSTER TPMS - Tyre Pressure Monitor- ing System (if equipped) CHECK TIRE Tyre pressure value of respective

TPMS - Tyre Pressure Monitor- ing System (if equipped) CHECK TIRE Tyre pressure value of respective Tyre and Tyre symbol will blink if Tyre pressure is High. Tyre pressure values will be displayed maining tyres. “CHECK TYRE“ for 1s and “PRESSU text warning comes ON for 2 cycle wi pressure is HIGH. with “psi” unit for re- RE” for another 1s hin 4 secs if tyre PRESSURE my u CHECK TIRE Text warning “AL” near to respective tyre and tyre symbol will blink if air is leakage. Tyre pressure values will be displayed maining tyres. “CHECK TYRE” for 1s and “PRESSU with “psi” unit for re- RE” for another 1s text warning comes ON for 2 cycle wi leakage. hin 4 secs if air is TPMS Tyre Pressure Monitor- ing System (if equipped) HIGH TIRE TEMPERATURE Text warning “HI” near to respective tyre and tyre symbol will blink if tyre temperature is High. Tyre temperature values will be displa’ remaining tyres. “HIGH TYRE” for 1s and “TEMPERATURE?” for another 1s text warning comes ON for 2 cycle within 4

“HIGH TYRE” for 1s and “TEMPERATURE?” for another 1s text warning comes ON for 2 cycle within 4 secs if tyre temperature is High. ed with °C unit for 61  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER TPMS Tyre Pressure Monitor- ing System (if equipped) i A TPMS ERROR Text warning “- -"near to respective tyre and tyre symbol will blink if sensor has fault/missing. Tyre pressure values will be displayed with “psi” unit for re- maining tyres. “TPMS ERROR’ text warning comes ON for 4 seconds when TPMS sensor has fault. Note: If text warning “- -” is displayed, it means “fault/missing” condition. In such case, take vehicle to TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre TPMS Tyre Pressure Monitor- ing System (if equipped) -- (AI -- i TPMS E. Text warning “—” near to all the tyre and tyre symbol will blink if TPMS system has fault/missing. “TPMS ERROR’ test warning comes ON for 4 seconds when TPMS system has fault. Note: If text warning “- -” is displayed, it means “fault/missing” condition. In such case, take vehicle to

text warning “- -” is displayed, it means “fault/missing” condition. In such case, take vehicle to TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre. Average Fuel Economy for Trip A Displays “Average Fuel consumption” for trip A or B since it was reset Resolution: 0.1 km/I Average Fuel Consumption shall Reset to 0 when respec- tive Trip meter is reset. Average Fuel Economy shall be displayed as ‘—.-‘for initial 0.5 km of respective trip. Once 0.5 km distance is covered, 62  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Average Fuel Economy for Trip B a LL km/ Average Fuel Economy shall be displayed. Even after 0.5 km distance covered for particular trip, Av- erage fuel economy is displayed as ‘—-'take vehicle to TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre. Note: + AFE value is estimate of fuel economy. It may vary sig- nificantly based upon driving cond and condition of vehicle. + Average Fuel Consumption shall get Reset to 0 when Battery is removed and refitted. + User can change the AFE unit as lon (MPG Uk) using SET and MO ¢

Battery is removed and refitted. + User can change the AFE unit as lon (MPG Uk) using SET and MO ¢ For AFE, the indicated maximum value is 30 km/I. No more than30 shall be indicated on the actual AFE is higher than 30 km/I. itions, driving habits m/I or miles per Gal- DE buttons. the display even if Instantaneous fuel economy (IFE) iFE kmil oo oo INST FE shall vary frequently as per driving pattern. The INST FE display does show Fuel drive. It indicates Instantaneous Fuel economy of current Drive when Ignition is turned ON. The display does not show actual value unless vehicle is moving. The indication on the display may be delayed if fuel con- sumption is affected by driving pattern. Continued on next page.. Economy of last 63  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Instantaneous fuel economy (IFE) User can change the INST FE unit as km/I or Miles per Gallon (MPG UK) using SET and MODE buttons. ‘MPG’ is applicable for Export variant only. For km/I setting, the indicated maximum value of INST FE is 30

applicable for Export variant only. For km/I setting, the indicated maximum value of INST FE is 30 km/l. No more than 30 shall be indicated on the dis- play even if the actual INST FE is higher than 30 km/I. For MPG setting, the indicated maximum value of INST FE is 80 MPG. No more than 80 shall be indicated on the dis- play even if the actual INST FE is higher than 80 MPG. Distance To Empty It indicates approximate distance in ‘km’ that your vehicle can travel with available fuel in tank. DTE values may vary significantly based on driving condi- ions, driving habits, and condition of the vehicle. It is an estimate value of the available driving distance. The DTE will update with new value when fuel is added more than 7 litre at a time. f low fuel warning light turns ‘ON’, fill the fuel tank immedi- ately regardless the value of displayed DTE. if vehicle is not on level ground or negative of battery has been disturbed, the DTE function may not operate cor- rectly. Note: lf DTE is

of battery has been disturbed, the DTE function may not operate cor- rectly. Note: lf DTE is displayed as ‘—-‘, take vehicle to TATA MOTORS. Authorized Service Centre. 64  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Driver Information System Image Description “TATA MOTORS’ text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when ignition is turned ‘ON’. This is part of the welcome strategy. TATA MOTORS 65  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Driver Information System (DIS) Setting Screen Setting Option I: Option Il: MSP to Emam amy MSP to Display OAT . Display * TRIPA D0 & DTE D0 & OAT TRIP A& AFEA MBSP to Dispaly TRIPB Note: OAT will not be visible for Non FATC & Non-AMT variant MBSP: Mode Button Short Press TRIP B&AFEB 000 & OTE t Long Pross TRIPAReset TRIPARAVGA Long Press TRIP Reset TRIPARAVGA Short Press 66  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Illumination Setting Option I: Press SBSP and if Vehicle Speed = 0& Park Lamp is OFF Press MBSP to Enter Clock Setting Press SBSP to Change Values Around SAVE AND EXIT MODE SBLP Press SBSP to Change Values

Setting Press SBSP to Change Values Around SAVE AND EXIT MODE SBLP Press SBSP to Change Values Around Hours Both HH Digit to SET Press MBSP to Enter Into Clock Setting CLOCK SETTING Note: 1 During clock setting is user does not give input for 10 Seconds, clock setting wil automatically save & exit with last saved value. During clock setting, if user made IGN cycle (or) vechicle moving clock setting will automatically save & exit with last valid value. Press SBLP to Set Press SBSP to Change Values Around A mm First aigit to Set Press SBLP to Set Minute First Digit _ Around 67  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Option II: Back to Previous Screen ==0N Park Lamp Short Press Park Lamp == ON Park Lamp == ON Short Press Short Press up Button ++ = Wum++ Short Press Short Press 68  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Clock Setting Option I: Back to Previous Screen OBOBANM i OBD8AN + Short Press <—____# Park Lamp == ON Short Press Park Lamp == ON Park Lamp == ON Short Press Short Press Mlum.++ Short Press Short Press 69

Press Park Lamp == ON Park Lamp == ON Short Press Short Press Mlum.++ Short Press Short Press 69  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Option II: Back to Previous Screen == ON Park Lamp Park Lamp == ON Short Press Short Press Park Lamp == ON Short Press up Button ++ = Hum++ Short Press Short Press 70  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER DIGITAL DISPLAY (7” Inch)(If equipped) SPEEDOMETER GAUGE TACHOMETER GAUGE TRIP METERA&B TEMPERATURE GAUGE 10:30 A SW 23.5 DRIVE ATTENTION ASSIST FUEL GAUGE DISTANCE TO EMPTY ODOMETER 71  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Speedometer The Speedometer Indicates the actual vehicle speed in km/h At every key IN and Ignition ON, the speedome- ter Bar moves to MAX and return to ‘0’ position. This is welcome strategy and self-check feature Tachometer Tachometer indicates the engine speed in revolu- tions per minute. Whenever engine is accelerated beyond safe RPM, tachometer Bar Indication turns RED. In such case, reduce the engine RPM immediately. Never drive the vehicle with engine in high RPM. This may

case, reduce the engine RPM immediately. Never drive the vehicle with engine in high RPM. This may cause severe engine damage. Odometer Odometer Indicates distance traveled by vehicle. The odometer reading does not return to 0 when maximum value is reached, the display will freeze to maximum value. Fuel Gauge When the ignition switch is in “ON” position, fuel gauge gives an approximate indication of the amount of fuel in the fuel tank. “F” stands for full and “E” stands for Empty. When fuel in the tank is near to empty position, low fuel warning telltale turns Amber. Refill the tank as . soon as possible. At every key in and Ignition ON, Fuel Gauge Bar move to F and come back to E position. This is wel- come strategy. On inclines, curves, during braking and sudden acceleration due to the movement of fuel in the tank, the fuel level display may fluctuate or the low fuel level warning lamp may turns ON/OFF earlier or delayed than usual. When the ignition switch is in “ON” position, this

may turns ON/OFF earlier or delayed than usual. When the ignition switch is in “ON” position, this gauge gives an approximate indication of the amount of fuel in the fuel tank and it takes few seconds to stabilize after the ignition is turned ON. 72  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER When the ignition switch is in the “ON” position, this gauge indicates the engine coolant temperature. The indicator should be within normal, acceptable temperature range i.e., between “H” and “C”. If the indicator approaches “H”, overheating is indicated by red LED bar in case of 4”. The RED bar and High Coolant temp warning telltale indicates overheating that may damage the engine. If the coolant temperature reading is very high, The Engine coolant temperature telltale flashes with an audible buzzer. In this case, stop the vehicle, switch ‘OFF’ the engine and cool it down for some time. Contact a nearest TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Temperature a . . : | . . Continuing to drive the vehicle when engine over- Centre

Service Temperature a . . : | . . Continuing to drive the vehicle when engine over- Centre immediately for rectification. Gauge ran . . heating is indicated can result in severe engine dam- age or fire. Instantaneous Updates display “Instantaneous Fuel consumption Maintain INST FE bar graph above 15 kmi/l to Fuel Economy at regular time interval in bar graph. achieve better fuel economy. Trip MeterA& B Trip Meter A Trip A Indicates distance traveled by vehicle since last reset within the range of 0 km to 9999.9 km with the resolution of 0.1 km. Trip Meter B Trip B Indicates distance traveled by vehicle since|* last reset within the range of 0 km to 9999.9 km with the resolution of 0.1 km. Trip Acan be RESET to 0 by pressing Set switch when display is in a TRIP A mode. Trip B can be RESET to 0 by pressing Set switch when display is in a TRIP A mode. 73  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Driver Information System Service reminder ay ee This indicates how many days/kilometres are left until serv- ice

System Service reminder ay ee This indicates how many days/kilometres are left until serv- ice is due. If service is overdue, it will display “O” km or “0” days and a spanner symbol will blink every time ignition is ON for a few seconds. Never reset the display between service intervals as it may give incorrect readings. The infor- mation is retained in the service interval display even after the vehicle battery is disconnected. NOTE:1. This option is for indicative purpose only. Keep track of your odometer reading and follow the maintenance schedule. 2. Spanner symbol will be continuously “ON” when service is overdue. Gear Recommendation Up or down arrow will be displayed on DIS to shift a gear up or down. No arrow shall be displayed when the selected gear is as per the Vehicle dynamics. NOTE: Following the recommended Gear shall result into a better Fuel Economy. Door Ajar (if equipped) This feature monitors the Door Input and warns Driver if any Door is Open 74  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER

This feature monitors the Door Input and warns Driver if any Door is Open 74  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER NOTE: If any other door is open roof lamp will be ‘ON’ pro- vided that roof lamp switch is in ON position. Outside Ambient Temperature ©. 220 sem Displays outside ambient temperature in °C. NOTE:The temperature sensor is in the front bumper of the vehicle, therefore the temperature reading can be affected by heat reflection from the road surface, engine heat and the exhaust from surrounding traffic. This can cause an in- correct temperature reading when speed is under low speeds or when stopped. If display shows ‘- - ‘, take your car to TATA MOTORS Au- thorized Service Centre. Current Gear Indication The Current Gear number displayed on the DIS screen based on gear shift lever position when clutch pedal is fully released. Note: When there is a failure in the system, instead of gear no ‘Fault’ shall be displayed. If Fault’ is displayed in the Gear number position, take your vehicle to TATA

shall be displayed. If Fault’ is displayed in the Gear number position, take your vehicle to TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre to get it repaired. Transmission Overheat Indication for DCA fea- ture (if Equipped) Illuminates momentarily when ignition is switched ‘ON’. IIlu- minates continuously when there is a High Temperature of Dual Clutch Transmission System. Contact a TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre imme- diately. 75  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Front Seat Belt Indicator The seatbelt warning indicator remains ON for 4 seconds, when ignition is turned ON. The warning lamp remains ON till all the driver & passenger seatbelts are not fastened. If seatbelt remains unbuckled and vehicle speed goes be- yond 15 kmph, then final audio warning will go more than 90 seconds Note: Once the seatbelts are fastened, the buzzer and warning lamp turns OFF. Seatbelt reminder remains OFF when re- verse gear is engaged. Rear Passenger seat belt Indicator Seat belt warning indicator comes ‘ON’ for 4

gear is engaged. Rear Passenger seat belt Indicator Seat belt warning indicator comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds, when ignition is turned ‘ON’ irrespective of seat belt buckle status. If Rear Passenger is present & its seat belt is not fastened then Telltale will be ON as initial warning with No audio chime. If seat belt remains unbuckled and vehicle speed goes above 15 kmph, Final Warning will start with audio chime for 90 seconds continuously Note: Once the seatbelts are fastened, the buzzer and warning lamp turns OFF. Seatbelt reminder remains OFF when re- verse gear is engaged. 76  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Tyre Pressure Monitor- ing System (if equipped) Tyre pressure information for individual tyre with pressure values will be displayed with “psi” unit on DIS if tyre pres- sure is within defined range. Tyre Pressure Monitor- oN nae ing System 4 oe TPMS screen with low tyre pressure (if equipped) © Tyre Pressure Monitor- ing System (if equipped) TPMS screen with high tyre pressure 77  INSTRUMENT

Tyre Pressure Monitor- ing System (if equipped) TPMS screen with high tyre pressure 77  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Tyre Pressure Monitor- ing System (if equipped) ASW 235 TPMS screen with Air leakage. Tyre Pressure Monitor- ing System (if equipped) 220 25 TPMS Malfunction Contact Service Centre ‘oD0 1103088 TPMS screen with malfunction. Instantaneous fuel economy (IFE) Instantaneous Fuel Economy shows current or instant fuel mileage of the vehicle when ignition is turned ON and vehi- cle is on running condition. Note: IFE shall vary frequently as per driving pattern. User can change IFE units by using unit settings only in ex- port market. 78  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Average Fuel Economy for Trip A and Trip B BTrip 8 Displays “Average Fuel consumption” for trip A or B since it was reset. Resolution: 0.1 km IPC shall display the “Average Fuel Economy A” correspon- ding to ‘TRIP A & “Average Fuel Economy B” corresponding to ‘TRIP B’ with the resolution of 0.1km/I. Average Fuel Economy A & B shall

B” corresponding to ‘TRIP B’ with the resolution of 0.1km/I. Average Fuel Economy A & B shall reset to 0 when Trip A & B is reset respectively. Average Fuel Economy shall be displayed as ‘—. - ‘for initial 0.5 km of respective trip. Once 0.5 km distance is covered, Average Fuel Economy shall be displayed. Distance To Empty It indicates approximate distance in ‘km’ that your vehicle can travel with available fuel in tank. DTE values may vary significantly based on driving condi- tions, driving habits, and condition of the vehicle. It is an es- timate value of the available driving distance. The DTE will update with new value when fuel is added more than 7 litre at a time. 79  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER If low fuel warning light turns ‘ON’, fill the fuel tank immedi- ately regardless the value of displayed DTE. If vehicle is not on level ground or negative of battery has been disturbed, the DTE function may not operate correctly. Note: If DTE is displayed as —-‘, take vehicle to TATA MOTORS

function may not operate correctly. Note: If DTE is displayed as —-‘, take vehicle to TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre. Infotainment Information On Instrument Cluster Display Unit St (9) NAVIGATION The instrument cluster will display information like media, navigation and FM. Settings Screen \ {0} SETTINGS User can enter into setting screen by pressing select button while being in setting screen. Following screen gets displayed into setting screen: 80  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Illumination Setting Illumination User can select Illumination Setting by Scroll down & press- ing Set Button in Setting Screen provided park lamp ON. User can increase the illumination from (20% to 100%) in 5 steps by using UP & SET Button. User can decrease the illumination from (100% to 20%) in 5 steps by using DOWN & SET Button. Service Reminder Reset Service Reminder Reset Reset Service Reminder? Button Button User can select Service Reminder Screen by Scroll down & pressing Set Button in Setting Screen.

User can select Service Reminder Screen by Scroll down & pressing Set Button in Setting Screen. User can reset (Yes / Cancel) the Service Reminder by UP / DOWN & SET Buttons. Note: In the Setting menu if there is no user input for 10 secs the previous screen shall be displayed. Clock Instrument Cluster equipped with digital clock which indi- cates current time in 12 / 24 hours mode. 81  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Power and Torque This feature indicates the value of Power and Torque deliv- ered by engine in the particular driving condition. Compass Screen Compass Feature used for navigation and orientation that shows direction relative to the geographic cardinal direc- tions. Compass indication on cluster shall display the direction of vehicle. Note: Compass feature will show correct/updated direction only when vehicle is in running condition. G-Force Screen G-Force Feature used to display graphical representation of vehicle acceleration on the cluster. IC shall display single dot indication

representation of vehicle acceleration on the cluster. IC shall display single dot indication of vehicle acceleration on HMI in X-Y coordinated graph. 82  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Driver Information System (DIS) Setting DIS Screen Flow (TFT Screen) Operate the Up & down and Set Switch on steering wheel to see 4. Trip Info: the Trip Info, Drive Assist, Vehicle Info, Notification, Navigation, Layout and Settings Window. Operate the Set Switch on steering wheel to reset TRIP A, AFE A, Avg Speed A, Trip Time A (When TRIP Ais displayed) and reset TRIP B, AFE B, Avg Speed B and Trip Time B (When TRIP B is displayed). 4A TrIpA 1.2 Trip B 4.3 Instant FE fi 1.4 Back to Main Menu 83  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER 3. Vehicle Info: 84 3.1 Power and torque 3.2 Date and time 3.3 Tyre information 3.4G force meter 3.4 Back to Main Menu 6. Notification/Navigation/Layout: Notification: Service Reminder Notification 2 Notification 3 Compass Navigation: Layout: Select any Layout View for go to main menu  INSTRUMENT

2 Notification 3 Compass Navigation: Layout: Select any Layout View for go to main menu  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER 7. Settings 7.4 Mlumination 7.2 Favourite menu 7.3 Factory reset 7.4 Service reminder reset 7.5 About setting 85  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER DIGITAL DISPLAY (10” INCH) (IF EQUIPPED) TACHOMETER GAUGE TRIP METERA&B SPEEDOMETER GAUGE 11:30 pm Trip Info Trip A Distance 2948.5 FE et the trip RR SPORT 000 015923 km 000 km . fall DRIVE ATTENTION ASSIST TEMPERATURE GAUGE ODOMETER DISTANCE TO EMPTY FUEL GAUGE 86  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER The Speedometer Indicates the actual vehicle speed + Atevery key IN and Ignition ON, the speedome- ter Bar moves to MAX and return to ‘0’ position. Speedometer . . in km/h * This is welcome strategy and self-check feature « Whenever engine is accelerated beyond safe RPM, tachometer Bar Indication turns RED. In such case, reduce the engine RPM immediately. + Never drive the vehicle with engine in high RPM. This may cause severe engine damage. ; ; NOTE: Tachometer

the vehicle with engine in high RPM. This may cause severe engine damage. ; ; NOTE: Tachometer Tachometer indicates the engine speed in revolu-| a+ every key in and Ignition ON, tachometer moves tions per minute. to MAX and returns to ‘0’ position. This is a welcome strategy and a self-check feature. In Engine running condition if the Tachometer is not showing the RPM, take your vehicle to TATA author- ized service center. + The odometer reading does not return to 0 when Odometer Indicates distance traveled by vehicle. maximum value is reached, the display will Odometer . freeze to maximum value. When the ignition switch is n ON’ position, fuel), On inclines, curves, during braking and sudden gauge gives an approximate indication of the acceleration due to the movement of fuel in the Fuel Gauge amount of fuel in the fuel tank. “F” stands for full and “E” stands for Empty. To be continued... When fuel in the tank is near to empty position, low fuel warning telltale turns Amber. Refill

When fuel in the tank is near to empty position, low fuel warning telltale turns Amber. Refill the tank as tank, the fuel level display may fluctuate or the low fuel level warning lamp may turns ON/OFF earlier or delayed than usual. 87  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Fuel Gauge soon as possible. At every key in and Ignition ON, Fuel Gauge Bar move to F and come back to E position. This is wel- come strategy. + When the ignition switch is in “ON” position, this gauge gives an approximate indication of the amount of fuel in the fuel tank and it takes few seconds to stabilize after the ignition is turned ON. WARNING: When Cluster detect Low Fuel level, It blinks last fuel bar with 1Hz frequency and Fuel tank symbol is con- tinue ON state. If there is any fault in the system, Low fuel warning symbol shall blink. Take your vehicle to the nearest TATA MOTORS authorized service station. Temperature Gauge When the ignition switch is in the “ON” position, this gauge indicates the engine coolant

Gauge When the ignition switch is in the “ON” position, this gauge indicates the engine coolant temperature. The indicator should be within normal, acceptable temperature range i.e., between “H” and “C”. If the indicator approaches “H”, overheating is indi- cated by red LED bar in case of 4”. The RED bar and High Coolant temp warning telltale indicates overheating that may damage the engine. * If the coolant temperature reading is very high, The Engine coolant temperature telltale flashes with an audible buzzer. + In this case, stop the vehicle, switch ‘OFF’ the engine and cool it down for some time. Contact a nearest TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre immediately for rectification. NOTE: At every key in and Ignition ON, Temperature Gauge moves to H and returns to C position for 10” Cluster. This is welcome strategy and self-check feature. 88  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Continuing to drive the vehicle when engine over- heating is indicated can result in severe engine dam- age or fire.

the vehicle when engine over- heating is indicated can result in severe engine dam- age or fire. WARNING: Never remove the radiator pressure cap from the ra- diator when the engine is hot. Do not restart the en- gine until the problem has been duly attended Instantaneous Fuel Economy Updates display “Instantaneous Fuel consumption” at regular time interval in bar graph. « Maintain INST FE bar graph above 15 km/I to achieve better fuel economy. Trip MeterA& B Trip Meter A Trip A Indicates distance traveled by vehicle since last reset within the range of 0 km to 9999.9 km with the resolution of 0.1 km. Trip Meter B Trip B Indicates distance traveled by vehicle since last reset within the range of 0 km to 9999.9 km with the resolution of 0.1 km. * Trip Acan be RESET to 0 by pressing Set switch when display is in a TRIP A mode. * Trip Bcan be RESET to 0 by pressing Set switch when display is in a TRIP A mode. 89  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Driver Information System (DIS) Service reminder ‘°R

is in a TRIP A mode. 89  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Driver Information System (DIS) Service reminder ‘°R SPORT 11:30 pw VEHICLE INFO po 123456 km This indicates how many days/kilometres are left until service is due. If service is overdue, it will display “O” km or “O” days and a spanner symbol will blink every time ignition is ON for a few seconds. Never reset the display between service in- tervals as it may give incorrect readings. The information is retained in the service interval display even after the vehicle battery is disconnected. NOTE:1. This option is for indicative purpose only. Keep track of your odometer reading and follow the maintenance sched- ule. 2. Spanner symbol will be continuously “ON” when service is overdue. Gear Recommendation Up or down arrow will be displayed on DIS to shift a gear up or down. No arrow shall be displayed when the selected gear is as per the Vehicle dynamics. NOTE: Following the recommended Gear shall result into a better Fuel Economy. Door Ajar (if

NOTE: Following the recommended Gear shall result into a better Fuel Economy. Door Ajar (if equipped) This feature monitors the Door Input and warns Driver if any Door is Open NOTE: If any other door is open roof lamp will be ‘ON’ pro- vided that roof lamp switch is in ON position. 90  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Outside Ambient Temperature {R sport 11:30 x TRIP INFO Trip 123456 km 000 Km iid Displays outside ambient temperature in °C. NOTE:The temperature sensor is in the front bumper of the vehicle, therefore the temperature reading can be affected by heat reflection from the road surface, engine heat and the ex- haust from surrounding traffic. This can cause an incorrect temperature reading when speed is under low speeds or when stopped. If display shows ‘- - ‘, take your car to TATA MOTORS Author- ized Service Centre. Current Gear Indication The Current Gear number displayed on the DIS screen based on gear shift lever position when clutch pedal is fully released. Note: When there is a

based on gear shift lever position when clutch pedal is fully released. Note: When there is a failure in the system, instead of gear no ‘Fault’ shall be displayed. If Fault’ is displayed in the Gear number position, take your vehicle to TATA MOTORS Author- ized Service Centre to get it repaired. Transmission Overheat Indication for DCA fea- ture (if Equipped) Illuminates momentarily when ignition is switched ‘ON’. IIlumi- nates continuously when there is a High Temperature of Dual Clutch Transmission System. Contact a TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre imme- diately. 91  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Front Seat Belt Indicator The seatbelt warning indicator remains ON for 4 seconds, when ignition is turned ON. The warning lamp remains ON till all the driver & passenger seatbelts are not fastened. If seatbelt remains unbuckled and vehicle speed goes beyond 15 kmph, then final audio warning will go more than 90 sec- onds Note: Once the seatbelts are fastened, the buzzer and warning lamp turns

go more than 90 sec- onds Note: Once the seatbelts are fastened, the buzzer and warning lamp turns OFF. Seatbelt reminder remains OFF when re- verse gear is engaged. Rear Passenger seat belt Indicator Seat belt warning indicator comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds, when ignition is turned ‘ON’ irrespective of seat belt buckle status. If Rear Passenger is present & its seat belt is not fastened then Telltale will be ON as initial warning with No audio chime. If seat belt remains unbuckled and vehicle speed goes above 15 kmph, Final Warning will start with audio chime for 90 sec- onds continuously Note: Once the seatbelts are fastened, the buzzer and warning lamp turns OFF. Seatbelt reminder remains OFF when re- verse gear is engaged. 92  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Tyre Pressure Monitor- ing System (if equipped) 11:30 pu VEHICLE INFO Tyre pressure information for individual tyre with pressure val- ues will be displayed with “psi” unit on DIS if tyre pressure is within defined range. Tyre Pressure Monitor-

displayed with “psi” unit on DIS if tyre pressure is within defined range. Tyre Pressure Monitor- ing System (if equipped) 11:30 pu VEHICLE INFO 123456: TPMS screen with low tyre pressure Tyre Pressure Monitor- ing System (if equipped) 11:30 Pn VEHICLE INFO =~ n Zz 00 123456km —000km TPMS screen with high tyre pressure 93  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Tyre Pressure Monitor- ing System (if equipped) 11:30 pw VEHICLE INFO TPMS screen with Air leakage. Tyre Pressure Monitor- ing System (if equipped) a ~ n a DO 123456 km 000 km TPMS screen with malfunction. Instantaneous fuel econ- omy (IFE) 11:30 P TRIP INFO Instant FE Instantaneous Fuel Economy shows current or instant fuel mileage of the vehicle when ignition is turned ON and vehicle is on running condition. Note: IFE shall vary frequently as per driving pattern. User can change IFE units by using unit settings only in export market. 94  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Average Fuel Economy for Trip A and Trip B Displays “Average Fuel consumption” for trip A

CLUSTER Average Fuel Economy for Trip A and Trip B Displays “Average Fuel consumption” for trip A or B since it was reset. Resolution: 0.1 km IPC shall display the “Average Fuel Economy A” correspon- ding to ‘TRIP A’ & “Average Fuel Economy B” corresponding to ‘TRIP B’ with the resolution of 0.1km/I. Average Fuel Economy A & B shall reset to 0 when Trip A & B is reset respectively. Average Fuel Economy shall be displayed as ‘—. - ‘for initial 0.5 km of respective trip. Once 0.5 km distance is covered, Average Fuel Economy shall be displayed. Distance To Empty 11:30 px TRIP INFO Trip A 655 123456 km Itindicates approximate distance in ‘km’ that your vehicle can travel with available fuel in tank. DTE values may vary significantly based on driving condi- tions, driving habits, and condition of the vehicle. It is an esti- mate value of the available driving distance. The DTE will update with new value when fuel is added more than 7 litre at a time. If low fuel warning light turns ‘ON’,

new value when fuel is added more than 7 litre at a time. If low fuel warning light turns ‘ON’, fill the fuel tank immediately regardless the value of displayed DTE. If vehicle is not on level ground or negative of battery has been disturbed, the DTE function may not operate correctly. Note:/f DTE is displayed as —-‘, take vehicle to TATA MO- TORS Authorized Service Centre. 95  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Infotainment Information On Instrument Cluster Display Unit 11:30 pw NAVIGATION The instrument cluster will display information like media, nav- igation and FM. Settings Screen ‘R SPORT User can enter into setting screen by pressing select button while being in setting screen. Illumination Setting User can select Illumination Setting by Scroll down & pressing Set Button in Setting Screen provided park lamp ON. User can increase the illumination from (20% to 100%) in 5 steps by using UP & SET Button. User can decrease the illumination from (100% to 20%) in 5 steps by using DOWN & SET Button.

User can decrease the illumination from (100% to 20%) in 5 steps by using DOWN & SET Button. 96  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Service Reminder Reset ‘R SPORT 000 kr User can select Service Reminder Screen by Scroll down & pressing Set Button in Setting Screen. User can reset (Yes / Cancel) the Service Reminder by UP / DOWN & SET Buttons. Note: In the Setting menu if there is no user input for 10 secs the previous screen shall be displayed. Clock Instrument Cluster equipped with digital clock which indicates current time in 12 / 24 hours mode. Power and Torque ‘R sPoRT 11:30 pw VEHICLE INFO Power & Torque 000 123456km 000m wf? This feature indicates the value of Power and Torque deliv- ered by engine in the particular driving condition. 97  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Compass Screen 11:30 pw NAVIGATION Compass Feature used for navigation and orientation that shows direction relative to the geographic cardinal directions. Compass indication on cluster shall display the direction of vehicle. Note: Compass

directions. Compass indication on cluster shall display the direction of vehicle. Note: Compass feature will show correct/updated direction only when vehicle is in running condition. G-Force Screen 11:30 Pat VEHICLE INFO %R sport G-Force Feature used to display graphical representation of vehicle acceleration on the cluster. IC shall display single dot indication of vehicle acceleration on HMI in X-Y coordinated graph. 98  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Driver Information System (DIS) Setting DIS Screen Flow (TFT Screen) Operate the Up & down and Set Switch on steering wheel to see 4 Trip Info: the Trip Info, Drive Assist, Vehicle Info, Notification, Navigation, Layout and Settings Window. Operate the Set Switch on steering wheel to reset TRIP A, AFE A, Avg Speed A, Trip Time A (When TRIP Ais displayed) and reset TRIP B, AFE B, Avg Speed B and Trip Time B (When TRIP B is displayed). 1A TripA ‘TRPINFO 1.2 TripB 4.3 Instant FE 99  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER 2. Settings: 3. Vehicle Info: 2.4 Illumination

1.2 TripB 4.3 Instant FE 99  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER 2. Settings: 3. Vehicle Info: 2.4 Illumination 3.1 Power and torque 2.2 Favourite menu 3.2 Date and time 3.3 Tyre 2.3 Service information reminder reset 3.4G force meter 2.4 About setting 100  WARNINGS AND INDICATORS INSTRUMENT CLUSTER This lamp comes on when ignition is switched ‘ON’. Once engine is started, (Diesel) Malfunction it turns ‘OFF’. Indication Lamp Amber . It remains ‘ON’ for any engine related fault that may increase emission lev- (MIL) els of the vehicle beyond the regulatory norms. Contact the TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre for rectification. This lamp comes on when ignition is switched ‘ON’. Once engine is started, Check Engine Amber it turns ‘OFF’. Lamp . This lamp comes on continuously if a fault arises in Engine Management System. Contact the TATAMOTORS authorized service Centre. This lamp comes on when the system disables engine start if the original key is not used. . | Lamp blinks: Vehicle is in immobilized

disables engine start if the original key is not used. . | Lamp blinks: Vehicle is in immobilized condition when key is not inserted. Immobilizer (if Red . . equipped) Lamp ON: Problem with key/system. Contact a TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre. Lamp OFF: Normal condition (Authenticated user) and engine will start. Pre-Heat indicator / This lamp comes on when ignition key is in ‘ON’ position. Glow Plug indicator Amber Engine shall be started only after this indicator goes ‘OFF’. 101  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Turn Signal Green Indicates direction indicated by the turn signal. Blinks along with buzzer while operating left/right turn indicator only when igni- tion is switched ‘ON’. The direction indicator arrow on Instrument Cluster flashes along with external indicator lights as selected. Both Tell tales shall blink simul- taneously when Hazard switch is pressed irrespective of Ignition ON and the Tick-Tock sound shall be given when any one or both the Tell tales are ON. High Beam Blue

and the Tick-Tock sound shall be given when any one or both the Tell tales are ON. High Beam Blue This lamp comes on when the high beam headlamps are switched ‘ON’ or flashed. Low Oil Pressure indicator Red 1. This lamp comes on when ignition is switched ‘ON’ and goes ‘OFF’ once re- quired engine oil pressure is developed after starting the engine. 2. If the low oil pressure indicator does not glow or remains ‘ON’ with the ‘IGN’ ‘ON’ and engine is running, it indicates a fault in the electrical circuit / lubri- cation system. Contact the TATA MOTORS Authorized service Centre. Battery charging Red The lamp comes on when ignition is switched ‘ON’. Once engine is started, it turns ‘OFF’. If it remains ‘ON’ while the engine is running, it indicates that the battery is not getting charged or having the lower charge. In such cases, attempt to charge the battery with 3000 engine rpm for 15 min and see if battery telltale goes off after one ignition ON- OFF. Even after 15 minutes, charging

and see if battery telltale goes off after one ignition ON- OFF. Even after 15 minutes, charging the battery telltale keeps ‘ON’ then switch off all unnecessary electrical equipment and contact the nearest TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre. 102  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER This lamp comes on when ignition is switched ‘ON’ and goes ‘OFF’ in approx. 4 Airbag status Red @y- seconds. If it continuously remains on or blinks then contact the TATA MOTORS “A Authorized service Centre immediately. Illuminates momentarily when ignition is switched ‘ON’. Once parking brake is Park Brake / Brake re-leased, it turns ‘OFF’. If it remains ‘ON’, it indicates. Fluid Low / EBD Red (@)) 1. Brake fluid level is low. malfunction 2. Park brake is applied & turns ‘OFF’ when it is released. 3. ABS/EBD system has a fault. This symbol lights up when the ‘IGN’ is turned ‘ON’ and shall go ‘OFF’ after 4 Cruise Control lamp Green sec. The Cruise Control is used to indicate the status of cruise control system to (if

lamp Green sec. The Cruise Control is used to indicate the status of cruise control system to (if equipped) the driver. Lamp ON indicates cruise control feature is present and it is acti- vated. IIluminates momentarily when ignition is switched ‘ON’. EPAS Amber yl Illuminates when there is a fault in the EPAS. Contact the TATA MOTORS Au- thorized Service Centre immediately. The lamp comes on when ignition is switched ‘ON’ and goes ‘OFF’ in approx. four seconds. If the engine overheats due to higher coolant temperatures, this indicator blinks High Coolant along with an audible buzzer. Contact your nearest TATA MOTORS Authorized Red ut Service Centre immediately. When the engine coolant temperature reaches the Temperature maximum limit, the tell-tale lights blink with a RED colour and you will hear an audio warning. Note: Do not remove the radiator pressure cap from the radiator when the en- gine is hot. Do not restart the engine until the problem has been duly attended. 103  INSTRUMENT

gine is hot. Do not restart the engine until the problem has been duly attended. 103  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER AVH Indicator (7” AUTO] HOLD. AVH Indicator turns ‘ON’ for 4 seconds, when ignition is turned ‘ON’ irrespective of input state. Start Engine engine. In case of AMT/DCT press brake pedal to start the engine. (ire Wuieped) Amber This feature monitors AVH function in ESP system and warns the driver in case quips AU of AVH function malfunction. The lamp comes on momentarily when ignition is switched ‘ON’. The symbol lights up continuously if fuel level in the tank is low. Fuel needs to a. be filled immediately. Low Fuel indicator Amber i | Note: The tell-tale warning light will start flashing if there is any fault in the fuel system. Contact the nearest TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre immedi- ately. Illuminates when ignition is switched ‘ON’ and goes ‘OFF’ in 3 seconds. Illumi- ABS Amber © nates continuously if there is any malfunction in ABS. Normal braking system will be

ABS Amber © nates continuously if there is any malfunction in ABS. Normal braking system will be operational without assistance of ABS. Contact a TATA MOTORS Autho- rised Service Centre immediately. = (reaupped) Amber i This lamp comes on when the Valid Smart key is not detected inside the vehicle. Press Clutch / Brake Pedal to Amber id This lamp comes on with IGN ON till user presses the clutch pedal to start the Ss (MT/AMT/DCT) 104  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER The lamp remains on if excess water is accumulated in the fuel filter. It Illumi- Water in fuel nates momentarily when ignition is switched ‘ON’. When this lamp remains ‘ON’, indicator Amber . : : F ‘ ee (Diesel) drain the water immediately to avoid serious damage to the fuel injection sys- tem. This lamp also turns ON when Fuel Filter Clogging warning is activated. Daytime running lamps Green This lamp comes on when the Daytime Running lamp is ‘ON’. DRL (if equipped) Door Ajar lamp (if White / All four door and Tail gate are indicated

is ‘ON’. DRL (if equipped) Door Ajar lamp (if White / All four door and Tail gate are indicated independently when the respective door equipped) Red or tail gate is open. IIluminates momentarily when ignition is switched ‘ON’. ECO Green When ECO lamp is ON, it indicates the car is in ‘Economy’ drive mode, which helps to achieve a better fuel economy. IIluminates momentarily when ignition is switched ‘ON’. If CITY lamp is ON, it indicates ‘City’ drive mode, which helps to achieve opti- CITY Blue mum torque and fuel economy. SPORT Amber This symbol comes ON when SPORT driving mode is activated when more torque is required. Speed limit warnin When the vehicle speed crosses 80 kmph, then speed limit warning indicator P 3) Amber turns ‘ON’ along with an audio chime for every two minutes (audible warning). indicator 105  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER When the vehicle speed is reduced below 75 kmph, then the speed limit warn- ing indicator and the audio warning will turn off. If vehicle speed crosses

the speed limit warn- ing indicator and the audio warning will turn off. If vehicle speed crosses 120 kmph, the speed limit warning indicator flashes along with an audio warning for every two sec one beep (audible warning) until the vehicle speed is above 120 kmph. When the vehicle speed is reduced below 115 kmph, then speed limit warning indicator turns ‘ON’ along with an audio chime for every two minutes one beep (audible warning) AMT Fault /DCA Fault (if equipped) Amber Illuminates momentarily when ignition is switched ‘ON’. Illuminates continuously when there is a fault in Automated Manual Transmis- sion system/ Dual Clutch Transmission. Contact a TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre immediately. TPMS Amber 1. This symbol comes ON and blink for 4 second if Tyre Pressure is LOW/HIGH, Tyre temperature is HIGH, Tyre air pressure leakage. After 4 second symbol will continuously ON till warning is present. 2. This symbol comes on and blink for 20 second if TPMS system has fault and

warning is present. 2. This symbol comes on and blink for 20 second if TPMS system has fault and TPMS Sensor fault / missing. After 20 second symbol will continuously ON till fault is present, Please take your vehicle to nearest TATA authorized service Centre at the earliest. Position Lamp Indi- cator Green Position Lamp Indicators used to display/Indicate the Position Lamp to Driver. 106  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER This feature monitor the Electronic Stability Program (ESP) input and informs ESP off Indicator Amber the driver about ESP status. PEPS Indication Green This feature monitors the IGN and ACC status and Indicate to Driver if IGN is (IGN) ON or ACC is ON. PEPS Indication Amber This feature monitors the IGN and ACC status and Indicate to Driver if IGN is (ACC) ON or ACC is ON. When ignition is turned ‘ON’, this symbol comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds and goes HDC Warning lamp Amber ‘OFF’. (if equipped) This symbol comes up when problem in the ESP/TCS system for HDC function, Get the problem

equipped) This symbol comes up when problem in the ESP/TCS system for HDC function, Get the problem attended to at TATA authorized Service Centre. HDC ON (if When ignition is turned ‘ON’, this symbol comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds and goes equipped) Green ‘OFF’. quipp This symbol comes on when the HDC function is activated in the vehicle IIluminates momentarily when ignition is switched ‘ON’. HHC warning lamp Amber If continuously on then HHC, system is in fault condition. Please take your vehi- (if equipped) cle to TATA authorized service Centre at the earliest. Electronic Stability IIluminates momentarily when ignition is switched ‘ON’. Pro-gram (ESP) Amber If continuously ON then ESP system is at fault condition, Please take your vehi- if equipped) cle to nearest TATA authorized service Centre at the earliest. 107  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER The DPF warning light or symbol switches ‘ON’ continuously to indicate that the DPF needs to eliminate the trapped pollutants (particulate matter) through

to indicate that the DPF needs to eliminate the trapped pollutants (particulate matter) through the automatic re-generation procedure. The warning light or symbol switch ‘ON’ only when driving conditions require the driver to be notified. DPF ‘ON’ does not indicate a malfunction. To switch off the warning light or symbol, keep the car running on road until re- generation is complete (ideally higher vehicle speed of above 45 kmph, Engine speed above 1800rpm). The auto regeneration process normally takes about 20 minutes of driving. The warning light or symbol remains ON during the entire DPF regeneration procedure completes successfully. If the procedure is not followed, MIL lamp will switch ON, along with DPF lamp on Instrument cluster. Note: Please follow the above recommended DPF regeneration procedure to avoid MIL lamp switch ‘ON’. In case, MIL lamp switch ON, please contact nearest TATA authorized service center to restore DPF operation. For park regeneration process in details

TATA authorized service center to restore DPF operation. For park regeneration process in details refer maintenance section. DPF (Diesel) (if equipped) Amber 108  AUTO REMINDERS Warning Messages 11:30 pm Notification Text 90: 015923 km NOTE: All messages may not be applicable to your vehicle INSTRUMENT CLUSTER 336 km . Fasten Seat Belt - Driver Seat Belt Reminder Fasten Driver Seat Belt Speed Limit Warning Speed Limit Warning Over Speeding Detected Slow Down Transmission Failure Drive Cautiously Visit Service Center Transmission Malfunction Drive Cautiously Contact Service Center Bl w [Nh] => Drive Control Shift Denied Drive Mode Warning Drive Control Shift Denied 109  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER vated Visit Service Center 5 Hill Hold Control Failure Hill Hold Control Malfunction Detected Contact Service Center 6 Hill Decent Control Failure Hill Decent Control Malfunction Detected Contact Service Center 7 Fuel Level Low State Fuel Level Warning Fuel Level Low 8 Fasten seat belt Co-driver Seat

Center 7 Fuel Level Low State Fuel Level Warning Fuel Level Low 8 Fasten seat belt Co-driver Seat Belt Reminder Fasten Co-driver Seat Belt 9 Fasten Seat Belt - Rear Passenger Seat Belt Reminder Fasten Passenger Seat belts 10 |Fasten Seat Belt -Passenger /Driver Seat Belt Reminder Fasten Driver & Passenger seat belts 11 Transmission Failure Limp home Acti- Transmission System Malfunction Detected Contact Service Center 110  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Alert Messages 11:30 pm Lamp Alert 015923 km NOTE: All messages may not be applicable to your vehicle. HDC Deactivation Due To Speed System Deactivated Speed Crossed Set = Hill Decent Control Above Set Value Limit 2 Park Brake Engaged (if equipped) | Brake Alert Park Brake Engaged 3 Electronic Stability Off Electronic Stability System ESP Turned Off 4 Traction Control Off Traction Control System TCS Turned Off 5 Hill Descent Control Active Hill Descent Control HDC Activated 111  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER 6 Auto Headlamp Lamp Alert Auto Headlamp Activated

Control HDC Activated 111  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER 6 Auto Headlamp Lamp Alert Auto Headlamp Activated 7 Resume to Target Speed Not Pos- Cruise Control Change gear to resume Cruise Speed sible in Current Gear 8 Cruise Override Cruise Control Cruise Override 9 Hill Descent Control Switched On_ | Hill Descent Control HDC Turned ON Shift to Park (P/N) - vehicle Start 10 |function for AT vehicle (if Transmission Alert Shift to Park or Neutral to Start Engine equipped) 13 [AVH Malfunction Auto Hold Malfunction Detected Contact Service Centre 112  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Interrupt Messages 11:30 pm Wet — —F 015923 km 336km » NOTE: All messages may not be applicable to your vehicle. 1 Rotate steering wheel (In ESCL jam condition) Press Start Button while Turning Wheel 2 Smart key out of range Smart Key Out of Range 3 Drive Alert - Tea Break Take a Break 4 Steering Failure-Visit Garage Steering Failure Contact Service Center 5 Steering Failure-Stop Driving Steering Failure Stop the Vehicle Safely 113

Service Center 5 Steering Failure-Stop Driving Steering Failure Stop the Vehicle Safely 113  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER 6 Door Ajar Door open 7 TPMS No Fault Tire Pressure 8 TPMS Low Pressure Low Tire Pressure - Inflate Tire 9 TPMS High Pressure High Tire Pressure - Deflate Tire 10 TPMS High Temperature Tire Overheated Slow Down 11 Combination alerts Check Tires 12 Malfunction TPMS Malfunction - Contact Service Centre 13 Air Leak Leakage Detected Check Tires 14 Fault TPMS Error - Check Tires 15 ESCL Press Start Button While Turning Wheel 16 No Key Smart Key Out of Range 17 Low Key Battery Smart Key Battery Low Replace Battery 18 Press Clutch Pedal Press Clutch Pedal to Start Engine 19 Press Brake Pedal Press Brake Pedal to Start Engine 20 Drive Modes Respective drive mode 22 Release Park Brake Press Brake Pedal to Release Park Brake 23 Happy Birthday Happy Birthday 24 Service Due Service Due 25 Low brake Fluid Low brake Fluid 26 Engine Locked Engine Locked 27 Unable to Resume Unable to Resume

Low brake Fluid Low brake Fluid 26 Engine Locked Engine Locked 27 Unable to Resume Unable to Resume 114  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER 28 Cruise off when function deactivated (if equipped) | Cruise off Don’t Press Brake and Accelerator Together - (For , 29 AMT vehicle) (if equipped) Don’t Press Brake and ACC Together 30 Turn Ignition OFF and ON again “Turn IGN OFF and ON again” when DCT Auth failure warning is (if equipped) present. 31 DCA Fault (if equipped) DCA Fault 32 Stay in D for 20s (if equipped) Stay in D for 20s 33 DCA high TEMP (if equipped) DCA high TEMP. 34 Shift Denied when user selected gear denied from Shift denied DCT system 35 Auto Mode Auto Mode 36 AMT Fault AMT Fault 37 Fill air reset system - when tyre pressure low de- Fill air reset system tected by iTPMS (if equipped) 115  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER AUDIO REMINDERS Sr. No Feature Key-in Reminder /audio Warn- 1 ing you forget the key inside the vehicle when you leave the ignition in ‘OFF’ posi- tion and door is open Reminder An

key inside the vehicle when you leave the ignition in ‘OFF’ posi- tion and door is open Reminder An audio warning will sound. Remove key to stop the warning. No key is detected in the vehi- the vehicle is in ACC ON/IGN ON and An audio warning will be sounded for nine sec- cle onds to alert that the key is not in the vehicle. the customer takes the smart key out of . . a : 2 . Note: In this condition customer needs to bring the the vehicle and closes the last door oo . smart key inside the vehicle - An audio warning will be started. Do not forget to Parking Lamp ‘ON’ Reminder you forget to turn OFF the park lights turn OFF your park lights as it may drain the vehi- 3 and driver door is open , cle’s battery. . f . __ | Tell tale will turn ‘ON’ and buzzer will provide audio . inp . Park Brake is applied and vehicle is . . . 4 Parking brake ‘ON’ reminder driven warning continuously. Disengage the park brake to stop audio warning. 5 Reverse Gear reminder reverse gear is engaged The buzzer

the park brake to stop audio warning. 5 Reverse Gear reminder reverse gear is engaged The buzzer sound will alert you for 1 second. If seatbelt is not fastened and vehicle goes | Then final audio warning will go on for more than Driver Seat Belt reminder above 15 kmph 90 seconds. Seat belt tell-tale light will remain 6 continuously ON when audio alarm is active. Co-Driver Seat Belt reminder / 7 Rear Passenger/ Rear Middle / Rear Driver f front passenger has not fastened seat- belt and if vehicle speed goes above 15 kmph, then final audio warning will go on for more than 90 seconds. Seat belt tell-tale light will remain continuously ON when audio alarm is active. Note: Fasten the seatbelt to stop audio warning. 116  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Ne Feature Condition Reminder - . When user switches drive mode from city |Sound warning for 1 second will be given to alert Drive mode chime ‘ ; . 8 to eco or city to sport (if equipped) user. Electronic Steering Column This feature informs the driver to

or city to sport (if equipped) user. Electronic Steering Column This feature informs the driver to rotate steering 9 Lock (ESCL) chime - wheel when ESCL gets engaged accidentally. 10 {AMT fault reminder If Fault occur in AMT 3 second audio warning will alert you. 1) If, Tyre Pressure is low 1) Audible warning for 4 second will be given to ann alert the user Tyre Pressure is high . . . . ae aan 2) Audible warning for 20 second will be given to Tyre Pressure Monitoring Sys-| Tyre temperature is high alert the user 11 tem Tyre air pressure leakage . + 2) If, TPMS system has fault Note: TPMS is not applicable for spare wheel. TPMS Sensor fault or missing 12 |PEPS Key not detected chime | If PEPS key is not detected in the vehicle | Sound warning will be given to alert User 13 igh Coolant temperature re- When temperature is high Continuous audio warning . . . Chime feature warns the driver when key is out 14 Key Out, Park Lights on And|Key Out, Park Lights on and Driver Door from ignition

key is out 14 Key Out, Park Lights on And|Key Out, Park Lights on and Driver Door from ignition lock barrel and park light is on and Driver Door Open Chime Open - . driver door is open. 15 |Speed Limit Chime if the speed is more than a configured Speed Limit Chime feature warns the driver if the value. speed is more than a configured value. Driver Shift Control Request denied indicates to 16 |Driver Shift Denied Chime Gear request does not meet set conditions |the driver that driver gear request cannot be al- lowed 117  118  STARTING AND STOPPING Manual Transmission (MT) Start To Drive + Make sure that the parking brake is en- gaged and vehicle is in neutral gear. + Press the clutch pedal fully and crank the engine. Do not press the accelera- tor pedal when starting the engine. @ NOTE The Starter protection system fitted in this vehicle does not allow you to crank the engine until you fully press the clutch pedal. + Release the key as soon as the engine starts. Repeat if engine does

fully press the clutch pedal. + Release the key as soon as the engine starts. Repeat if engine does not start. + Press the clutch pedal fully and shift into 1st gear. + After releasing the parking brake, grad- ually release the clutch and slowly press the accelerator. @ NOTE + When shifting or starting, do not race the engine. Racing the engine can shorten engine life and affect smooth shifting. + The Starter protection system switches off the starter when it is continuously cranked for more than 10 secs. In such a case, get the key back to ‘OFF’ position & wait for 30 secs. + For vehicle equipped with tur- bocharger, after you start/stop the engine, run the engine at idle speed for 30 seconds. Do not press accel- erator pedal while starting the en- gine to avoid damage to the turbocharger. Stopping The Vehicle For vehicle equipped with turbocharger, turn the key to ‘ACC’ position to switch off the engine. Before switching off the en- gine, run the engine at idle speed for 30 seconds

off the engine. Before switching off the en- gine, run the engine at idle speed for 30 seconds and then switch it off. This will STARTING AND DRIVING allow the engine oil to lubricate the tur- bocharger, till its speed is fully reduced and also allow the unit to cool down. AX WARNING * Do not switch off the ignition/engine while driving, as steering, brakes will not work in as desired condition which would result in fatal injury/ac- cident. 119  STARTING AND DRIVING Monostable Shifter (If equipped) + Your vehicle is equipped with Mono- stable shifter, where the shift lever re- turns to its stable position the moment it is released. + It is provided with 2 UP positions and 2 DOWN posi DOWN1-DOW! + The user shal ions: UP2-UP1-Stable- N2. release the Gear shift lever after each gear shift, as any new Gear shift will position only. + The user has be possible from stable to confirm the desired Gear position on display. * Gear shift shal non-stable po: holding the shi shift position. 120

Gear position on display. * Gear shift shal non-stable po: holding the shi shift position. 120 not be attempted from sition by continuously ift lever in the previous Gear shift Position UP2 UP1 Down 1 Down 2 Mono-stable shifter movement Unlock Button | Brake Pedal Press Press PtoR Stable position -> Up2 (2nd detent) Yes Yes DtoR Stable position -> Up2 (2nd detent) Yes Yes PtoN [Stable position -> Up1 (1st detent) Yes Yes NtoR Stable position -> Up1/Up2 Yes Yes DtoN_ |Stable position -> Up1 (1st detent) Yes No Stable Position PtoD Stable position -> Down1/Down2 Yes Yes RtoN Stable position -> Down1(1st detent) No No RtoD Stable position -> Down2(2nd detent) Yes Yes NtoD Stable position -> Down1/Down2 Yes Yes  Automated Manual Transmission (AMT) (If equipped) Automated Manual Transmission offers three Gear position in the Gear shifter: 1. Reverse Mode (R) 2. Neutral Mode (N) 3. Drive Mode (D) Start To Drive * Start the ignition to ON position. + Press the brake pedal, bring the gear

(D) Start To Drive * Start the ignition to ON position. + Press the brake pedal, bring the gear shifter to Neutral position. Check “N” is displayed on cluster. + Now start the vehicle, release the park- ing brake. + Based on requirement select the drive mode “D” or reverse mode “R’”. + Slowly release the brake pedal and ve- hicle will start moving. L) NOTE Vehicle will start in Neutral only. Stopping The Vehicle + Press the brake pedal regardless of gear position. * Vehicle will come to halt. Bring the gear shifter from drive mode “D” to Neutral mode “N’. + Apply parking brake, release the brake pedal. * Turn the ignition OFF. STARTING AND DRIVING Dual Clutch Transmission (DCT) (If equipped) Dual Clutch Transmission offers four Gear position in the Gear shifter: 1. Park Mode (P) 2. Reverse Mode (R) 3. Neutral Mode (N) 4. Drive Mode (D) Start To Drive + Start the ignition to ON position. + Press the brake pedal, bring the gear shifter to Neutral position. Check “N” is 121  STARTING AND

+ Press the brake pedal, bring the gear shifter to Neutral position. Check “N” is 121  STARTING AND DRIVING displayed on cluster or ensure the Park mode is ‘ON’ on the shifter, check ‘P’ is displayed on Instrument cluster. + Nowstart the vehicle, release the park- ing brake. + Based on requirement select the drive mode “D” or reverse mode “R’”. + Slowly release the brake pedal and ve- hicle will start moving. @ NOTE Engine can be cranked in Neutral/ Park gear only. Stopping The Vehicle + Press the brake pedal regardless of gear position. + Vehicle will come to halt. + Bring the gear shifter from drive mode “D” to Neutral mode “N” or Parking mode “P”. + Apply parking brake, release the brake pedal. + Turn the ignition OFF, vehicle will go in park mode. 122 Engine Passive Start/stop Start/Stop switch is provided on the dash- board towards the left side of steering wheel. Start/Stop Button It is used to control ACC, IGN outputs as well as to start and stop the engine. @ NOTE + If smart

It is used to control ACC, IGN outputs as well as to start and stop the engine. @ NOTE + If smart key is inside the vehicle and on pressing start stop switch, if start stop switch green LED blinks more than 10 sec. duration then contact TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre. + If ESCL (Electronic Column Steer- ing Lock) is not unlocked properly, then vehicle doesn’t go into ACC mode. Backup Start To start the engine when smart key battery voltage is low, the user needs to press start/stop button two times with an interval of 2.5 seconds after pressing the clutch with valid smart key at its location (as shown in figure).  Emergency Start If the engine is switched from ON to OFF and start/stop button is pressed with clutch pressed within 5 seconds, engine gets cranked. If ESCL (Electronic Column Steering Lock) is not unlocked properly, then En- gine will not get cranked. Engine Passive Start Condition Single Press Start 1. Bring the smart key with you and sit in the driver seat. 2.

Start Condition Single Press Start 1. Bring the smart key with you and sit in the driver seat. 2. Press the clutch/brake pedal and then press the start/stop switch. 3. Green colour LED on start/stop button will turn ON. 4. Once vehicle is started successfully, the green colour LED on start/stop but- ton stays ON. Two Step Start Step 1 1. Have the smart key with you and sit on the driver's seat. 2. Press the start/stop button without pressing clutch pedal. 3. Amber colour LED on start/stop switch turns ON. 4. Vehicle will remain OFF and all electri- cal equipment and infotainment sys- tem can be used. Steering is unlocked. STARTING AND DRIVING Step 2 1. Press the clutch/brake pedal and then press start/stop button to start the en- gine. 2. Green colour LED on start/stop button will turn ON. 3. Once vehicle start successfully, green colour LED on start/stop switch will re- main ON. Three Step Start Step 1 1. Have the smart key with you and sit on the driver's seat. 2. Press the

Three Step Start Step 1 1. Have the smart key with you and sit on the driver's seat. 2. Press the start/stop button without pressing clutch pedal. 3. Amber colour LED on start/stop button will turn ON. 4. Limited information will be displayed on instrument cluster and steering will be unlocked. Engine remains OFF. Step 2 1. Press the start/stop button without pressing clutch pedal again. 123  STARTING AND DRIVING 2. Green colour LED on start/stop button will turn ON. 3. Vehicle will remain OFF but all electri- cal equipment and infotainment sys- tem can be used. Step 3 1. Press the clutch/brake pedal and then press start/stop button to start the ve- hicle. 2. Green colour LED on start/stop button will turn ON. 3. Once the vehicle is started success- fully, the green colour LED on start/stop button stays ON. Engine Passive Stop Condition Single Press Stop 1. IGN is ON and vehicle is running. 2. Press the start/stop button with or with- out clutch. 3. ACC and IGN turns OFF. 4. LED on

2. Press the start/stop button with or with- out clutch. 3. ACC and IGN turns OFF. 4. LED on start/stop switch turns OFF Single Long Press Stop 124 WARNING IGN is ON and vehicle is running. . Vehicle is in running condition i.e. wheel rpm >10 RPM or wheel sensor faulty. Press the start/stop button for more than three seconds. IGN returns OFF, ACC remains ON. Amber colour LED on start/stop switch turns ON. When vehicle is in OFF mode (ACC, IGN and Crank OFF) and user tries to lock the vehicle from outside by press- ing any door handle switch and if PEPS detects that the smart key is left inside the vehicle, an audio warning/ chime is sounded. STEERING SYSTEM AND ADJUST- MENT Steering Lock And Unlock UNTOCKS With EPAS it gets automatically locked and unlocked as the ignition switch is OFF/ON. The tilt lever located under the steering column. To Adjust The Steering Wheel 1. Adjust the seat to a comfortable posi- tion. 2. Push the tilt lever completely down to  unlock the steering column.

to a comfortable posi- tion. 2. Push the tilt lever completely down to  unlock the steering column. Adjust the steering wheel to the de- sired position. Pull the tilt lever up completely to lock the steering column. ~ a a Make sure that steering wheel is se- curely locked by checking up and down direction. @ NOTE When adjusting the steering wheel, make sure that: + You can see control pedals without any obstacles. + You can see all the displays in the instrument cluster clearly. A\ WARNING Before you start the car, make sure the steering wheel position is locked. Do not unlock or adjust the steering wheel while the vehicle is in motion. Steering Lock And Ignition Switch The ignition switch has the following four positions: LOCK This is the normal parking position. Key from lock can be removed in this position only. “LOCK” position prevents normal use of the steering wheel after the key is re- moved. To release the steering lock, put the key in the slot and turn it clockwise to one

is re- moved. To release the steering lock, put the key in the slot and turn it clockwise to one click (ACC). STARTING AND DRIVING ACC Accessories such as the infotainment sys- tem can be operated, but the engine re- mains ‘OFF’. Steering gets unlocked. ON This is the normal operating position. All electrical systems are ‘ON’. START Turn the key further clockwise to the START position, (spring loaded) to start the engine. As soon as the engine starts, release the ignition key, which returns to ON position. While cranking, all acces- sories will be momentarily ‘OFF’. Illuminated Key Ring (if equipped) When the vehicle is unlocked, the illumi- nated key ring glows. This helps to locate ignition switch in the dark. 125  STARTING AND DRIVING Electric Power Assisted Steering (EPAS) Your vehicle is equipped with electric power assisted steering system. The EPAS system makes steering the vehicle easier with less effort. In EPAS system, the steering effort be- comes heavier as the vehicle

easier with less effort. In EPAS system, the steering effort be- comes heavier as the vehicle speed in- creases and becomes lighter as the vehicle speed decreases for better control of the vehicle at different vehicle speeds. If the vehicle is ‘OFF’ or if the EPAS sys- tem is inoperative the vehicle still can be steered with more steering effort however ignition switch should be in ON position else steering wheel will get locked. This EPAS system is available with the fol- lowing assist features 1. Speed sensitive assist control 2. Active return control @ NOTE + Aclick noise may be heard from the EPAS relay after the ignition switch 126 is turned ON or OFF position. + The steering wheel may not unlock normally in some cases when igni- tion key turned ‘ON’ or ISS button pressed. If this happens, turn the steering wheel to the right or left slightly to unlock the steering wheel while turning the ignition key or pressing ISS button. + Contact the nearest TATA MOTORS Authorized Service

the ignition key or pressing ISS button. + Contact the nearest TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre if in case of the above scenarios. AX WARNING Below are the symptoms of the system malfunction. Then, take your vehicle to the nearest TATA MOTORS service center and have the EPAS system checked as soon as possible. + Engine noise may be heard when the vehicle is driven at low speeds. + If the EPAS system does not oper- ate normally, the warning light will illuminate on the instrument cluster. The steering wheel rotation may become difficult to control or operate. + The EPAS warning light does not il- luminate. @ NOTE + The steering effort can suddenly in- crease, if the operation of the EPAS system is stopped to prevent seri- ous accidents when it detects mal- function of the EPAS system during self-diagnosis. + When steering for a prolonged pe- riod, the steering effort will increase to prevent overheating and damage to the steering system.  DRIVING TIPS Plan your tour in advance get

prevent overheating and damage to the steering system.  DRIVING TIPS Plan your tour in advance get help from google maps, check for road con- ditions, kms to be covered in a day, halting destination, fuel station, food station, hospitals and roadside assis- tance in case of emergency. Always wear your seat belt and ensure all passengers so the same. Follow speed limits and adjust your speed according to road condition. Keep safe following distance from the vehicle in front of you. Obey traffic rules and sign at all times. Avoid distraction like mobile phone, texting while driving. Check your mirror frequently and be aware of surrounding. Never drive under the influence of al- cohol or drugs. Avoid aggressive driving behaviour like tailgating or excessive over speeding. Regularly maintain your vehicle to en- sure good working condition. * Take adequate break and rest every after 200 kms. * Check tyre pressure, coolant, oil indi- cation, any leakage under the vehicle regularly during

* Check tyre pressure, coolant, oil indi- cation, any leakage under the vehicle regularly during travelling. « Use horn, light and indicators as per condition. AX WARNING We strongly advise you not to drive in late hours/sleep hours to avoid fatality because body response is slow to re- spond to any situation in this time pe- riod @ NOTE Remember, safe driving is crucial for your safety and safety of others on the road, drive responsibly following above driving tip may help is good and enjoy- able travelling experience. Driving Through Flooded Water Water may enter the vehicle interior and engine compartment which could damage STARTING AND DRIVING engine, electronic & electrical systems. Judge the depth of water before driving through it. If at all the situation demands that you have to drive through water then; * Keep engine in higher RPM and crawl the vehicle in low gear. + Flowing or rushing water creates strong forces. Driving through flowing water could cause the vehicle to about

rushing water creates strong forces. Driving through flowing water could cause the vehicle to about trying to drive through flowing water. + Lightly apply the brake pedal to dry the liners until the brakes work normally once you are out of water. A\ WARNING Do not attempt to start the engine if ve- hicle gets flooded due to water. Tow the vehicle to a safe place. Contact a near- est TATA MOTORS Authorised Service Centre. Driving On Wet Roads + Check wiper blades, lights and brakes for proper functioning. 127  STARTING AND DRIVING + Check the tyre condition visually, tyre treads depth, cut mark, worn out etc. + Avoid harsh braking and sharp turns. It may cause loss of control and lead to a skid. + For slowing down, shift to lower gears and brake gently. * Keep lights ‘ON’ if visibility is poor. AX WARNING On wet road or during light showers, “Aquaplaning” can occur. “Aquaplaning” is the loss of direct contact between the road surface and the vehicle’s tyres due to a water film forming

loss of direct contact between the road surface and the vehicle’s tyres due to a water film forming between them. Steering or braking the vehicle can be very difficult, and loss of control can occur. There is no hard and fast rule about aquaplaning. The best advice is to slow down when the road is wet. @ NOTE If you have driven for a long time in heavy rain without braking, there may 128 be a delayed reaction from the brakes when braking for the first time. You have to press the brake pedal more firmly. Maintain a greater distance from the ve- hicle in front Driving On Snow Roads While driving on snow, it is advisable to use the snow chain on roads. Follow as- sembly and safety instruction provided by the snow chain manufacturers. A\ WARNING Wet ice (0°C and freezing rain), snow or ice can be slick and very hard to drive on. The vehicle will have much less traction or “grip” under these conditions. Try to avoid driving on wet ice. Whatever the conditions, drive with cau- tion.

these conditions. Try to avoid driving on wet ice. Whatever the conditions, drive with cau- tion. Accelerate and slow down with care. If accelerating too fast, the drive wheels will lose even more traction. Allow more stopping distance under these conditions. Braking should be started sooner than on dry pavement. Allow greater following distances on slippery roads. Night Driving + Ensure that all lights are working and windshield, window glasses are clean. + Drive more slowly at night than in the daytime, as the visual range is re- stricted at night. Maintain a speed such that you can stop within illuminated distance of headlamps. + Do not use the high beam unless in- evitable. It may dazzle the driver of the oncoming vehicle, thus causing an ac- cident. + Use headlamp main/dip beam to alert other road users on turns/ cross roads etc. + Use side indicators for lane change or turning Gradient Driving When climbing gradient, the vehicle may begin to slow down and show a lack of power.

Driving When climbing gradient, the vehicle may begin to slow down and show a lack of power. If this happens, shift to a lower gear and apply power smoothly so that there is  no loss of traction. When driving down a hill, the engine brak- ing should be used by shifting into a lower gear. Do not drive in neutral gear or switch off the engine. Depending on the severity of the gradient, shift into appropriate gear. Use engine braking judiciously without over- revving the engine. Brake application under such situations should be done very. ZX WARNING When descending on sharp gradients, NEVER turn the ignition key to the ‘OFF’ position. Emission control system damage may result. Highway Driving Stopping distance progressively, in- creases with vehicle speed. Maintain a sufficient distance between your vehicle and the vehicle ahead. For long distance driving, perform safety checks before starting a trip and take rest at certain intervals to prevent fatigue. DRIVE AND GEAR MODES Drive Modes

a trip and take rest at certain intervals to prevent fatigue. DRIVE AND GEAR MODES Drive Modes Drive mode selection switch ‘ECO ‘, ‘CITY’ and ‘SPORT’ drive modes are provided. These modes can be used to adjust engine characteristics and vehi- cle performance in line with desired re- quirement. ‘CITY’ mode is a default drive mode. Drive mode selection switch is provided on center console for activation. STARTING AND DRIVING Increased engine Torque and CITY Power output for BALANCED performance ECO Optimum engine Torque and Power output for FUEL EFFI- CIENT performance SPORT | Driver can use maximum torque from engine. 129  STARTING AND DRIVING Gear Modes 6 SPEED: Manual Transmission 5 SPEED: NOTE + Donot press clutch pedal while driv- ing the vehicle or when stationary on a slope. + When vehicle is in ACC/IGN/RUN mode and user does any door state transition including tailgate then audio warning chime comes ON. + If PEPS does not detect smart key inside the vehicle when last door in-

warning chime comes ON. + If PEPS does not detect smart key inside the vehicle when last door in- cluding tailgate is closed, then audio warning chime comes ON. The gearshift pattern is as shown on the gear lever knob. Gear shifting should al- ways be done with clutch pedal pressed. NOTE * Gear recommendation is displayed when the clutch pedal is in fully re- leased position. + If “F’ is displayed in DIS of instru- ment cluster, it means ‘Fault’ condi- tion. Contact a TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre. 130  Reverse Gear For engaging reverse gear, lift the latch and shift to reverse position. Press the clutch fully while shifting the gear. The reverse gear should be engaged only when the vehicle is stationary. Wait for 5 seconds after declutching to ensure smooth engagement of the reverse gear. Automated Manual Transmission (AMT) (If equipped) The AMT has 6 forward and one reverse gear. The individual gears are selected automat- ically, depending on position of gear shift lever.

gear. The individual gears are selected automat- ically, depending on position of gear shift lever. Vehicle will be allowed to crank only when gear position is in Neutral. To crank the engine switch ON ignition or push start/stop button, press the foot brake pedal fully and release the parking brake and then crank the engine. STARTING AND DRIVING Reverse Mode This position puts the transmission in re- verse gear when engaged in stationary condition with plunger press on the selec- tor lever & foot brake pedal is fully pressed and selector lever movement in forward di- rection. The selector lever shall never be moved into reverse while driving forward. Neutral Mode To put the transmission in Neutral position from R or D foot brake & plunger press on the selector lever is required. It enables the engine to start and operate without driving the vehicle. Drive Mode This position is for normal driving condi- tions for maximum efficiency and fuel economy. To move to drive position the se-

driving condi- tions for maximum efficiency and fuel economy. To move to drive position the se- lector lever should be moved to backward direction. Ensure the plunger is pressed on the selector lever to shift the gear from D to N. Also to Shift from D to R with foot brake & plunger press on the selector lever are required. 131  STARTING AND DRIVING Dual Clutch Transmission (DCT) (If equipped) The DCT has 7 forward and one reverse gear. The individual gears are selected automat- ically, depending on position of gear shift lever. Vehicle will be allowed to crank only when gear position is in Park or Neutral. To crank the engine switch ON ignition or push start/stop button, press the foot brake pedal fully and release the parking brake and then crank the engine. 132 Drive Mode This position is for normal driving condi- tions for maximum efficiency and fuel economy. To move to drive position the se- lector lever should be moved to backward direction. Ensure the plunger is pressed on the

the se- lector lever should be moved to backward direction. Ensure the plunger is pressed on the selector lever to Shift the gear from D to N. Also to Shift from D to R with foot brake & plunger press on the selector lever. wi be indicated on instrument cluster. Reverse Mode This position puts the transmission in re- verse gear when engaged in stationary condition with plunger press on the selec- tor lever & foot brake pedal is fully pressed and selector lever movement in forward di- rection. The selector lever shall never be moved into reverse while driving forward. A win be indicated on instrument cluster. Neutral To put the transmission in Neutral position from R or D foot brake, plunger press on the selector lever is required. It enables the engine to start and operate without driving the vehicle. IN) Iki will be indicated on instrument cluster. A\ WARNING + Always make sure to keep the gear shift lever in the “N” position, when the engine is running and vehicle is stationary. +

the gear shift lever in the “N” position, when the engine is running and vehicle is stationary. + Donot shift the lever in “N” position, even momentarily, when the vehicle is in motion. Park Mode Whenever the vehicle is to be parked, Press the Park (P) button on the gear shifter, as well as apply the parking brake. The gear shifter must be engaged in Park (P) position only when the vehicle is sta- tionary. Do not engage Parking Position (P) in running condition. If engaged while the vehicle is in motion it may severely damage the transmission. Before leaving the driver’s seat, always make sure the shifter is in the P (Park) po-  sition, then apply parking brake fully and shut the engine off. If this is not followed, unexpected and sudden vehicle move- ment can occur. Shift from P to any gear R/N/D is possible only with foot brake & plunger is pressed on the selector lever. Edwin be indicated on instrument cluster. @ NOTE * Transmission Control Unit may dis- allow incorrect manual

indicated on instrument cluster. @ NOTE * Transmission Control Unit may dis- allow incorrect manual shift com- mand by user and a message ‘Driver Control Shift denied’ is dis- played on Instrument Cluster. + In order to protect the engine, the transmission will automatically up- shift to prevent engine over-revving OR downshift to prevent engine Stalling at certain specified engine rpm limits. * The first few shifts on a new vehicle, maybe somewhat abrupt after TCU replacement or software updation. This is normal condition. Shifting se quence will get adjusted after few shift cycle by TCU (Transmission Control Unit). In the event that the transmission develops a fault, a warning mes- sage may be displayed on the In- strument cluster & only limited gears may become available. You should seek qualified assistance immedi- ately. STARTING AND DRIVING Driving Automated Manual Transmission Climbing Sharp Gradients Apply the parking brake firmly so that the vehicle does not roll backwards.

Sharp Gradients Apply the parking brake firmly so that the vehicle does not roll backwards. Shift the gearshift lever to the “A” position while depressing the brake pedal. Make sure that the gear position indicator in the instrument cluster displays ‘1st’ gear. Release the brake pedal and depress the accelerator pedal gradually, and when the vehicle starts to move, release the parking brake and depress the accelerator pedal to start off. On climbing sharp gradients, never hold the vehicle at a stop using only the accel- erator pedal or the creeping function. If you perform this operation for a certain pe- riod of time, this can also cause excessive damage to the clutch. 133  STARTING AND DRIVING A\ WARNING Try not to hold the brake pedal down too long or too often while going down a steep or long hill. This could cause the brakes to over- heat, resulting in reduced braking effi- ciency. Failure to take this precaution could re- sult in loss of vehicle control. Descending Sharp

ciency. Failure to take this precaution could re- sult in loss of vehicle control. Descending Sharp Gradients Depress the brake pedal and shift the gear shift lever to the ‘A’ position. Make sure that the gear position indicator in the in- strumental cluster displays ‘1st’ gear. Release the brake pedal and depress the accelerator pedal slowly. Even if the accel- erator pedal is not depressed, the clutch will be engaged when the vehicle speed increases. A\ WARNING When descending on sharp gradients, NEVER turn the ignition key to the ‘OFF’ position. Emission control system 134 damage may result. Braking Your vehicle has vacuum assisted brakes. The distance needed to bring the vehicle to a halt increases with the speed of the vehicle. Start applying brake anticipating the distance and slow down gradually. WARNING + Do not use the brake pedal as a footrest. + If you rest your foot on the brake pedal while driving, the braking sys- tem can overheat and cause fading of brake pads. This

brake pedal while driving, the braking sys- tem can overheat and cause fading of brake pads. This increases the stopping distance and can even cause the braking system to fail. There is a risk of an accident. + Do not press the brake pedal and the accelerator pedal at the same time. After you drive through water or if you wash the underside of the vehicle, test the brakes at slow speeds to see if the brakes work fine. If the brakes are less effective than normal, dry them by repeatedly ap- plying the brakes at slow speeds until the brakes have regained their normal effec- tiveness .If you have driven for a long time in heavy rain without braking, there may be a delayed reaction from the brakes when you brake for the first time. This may also occur after the vehicle has been washed. Brake performance may become poor and unpredictable if brakes are wet. After you drive through water or if you wash the underside of the vehicle, test the brakes at slow speeds to see if the brakes work

if you wash the underside of the vehicle, test the brakes at slow speeds to see if the brakes work fine. If the brakes are less effective than normal, dry them by repeatedly ap- plying the brakes at slow speeds until the brakes have regained their normal effec- tiveness. Check traffic conditions before doing the above activity.  OPERATING _ of WIPERS Combi-switch (RH Stalk) LIGHTS and Left Turn Signal Move the lever to horizontally forward. Right Turn Signal Move the lever to horizontally downward. @ NOTE When the turn is completed, the signal will cancel and the lever will return to its normal position. High Beam Move the lever vertically downward to se- lect the high beam function. Pull the lever back to normal for low beam. High Beam Flash (Spring Return) To flash the high beam, move the lever vertically upward from the normal position. It will return to its normal position when you release it. Headlamp Rotary Switch OFF Position All lamps will remain ‘OFF.’ Parking Lamp e OFF

you release it. Headlamp Rotary Switch OFF Position All lamps will remain ‘OFF.’ Parking Lamp e OFF Rotate stalk to turn ‘ON’ the Parking lamps. Low Beam Rotate stalk to turn ‘ON’ the Low Beam function. Auto Light Vv A\AY Lo} The headlights will be automatically switched CO a WwW STARTING AND DRIVING ON depending on ambient light conditions (while entering a tunnel or when it is twi- light). Day Time Running Lamps (DRL) Day time Running Lamps (DRL) are used to in- crease the visibility of the vehicle to other drivers during daytime. 1. To activate and deactivate DRL, keep the ignition switch in ‘ON’ position and switch the parking lamp ON-OFF twice within approx. three seconds. 2. Activation and Deactivation of DRL can be done by DRL soft switch, which is avail- able on the Head Unit Display. Lane Change Signal To signal a lane change, move the lever horizontally forward for LH or horizontally downward for RH point where the turn sig- nal light begins to flash but the lever does not

downward for RH point where the turn sig- nal light begins to flash but the lever does not latch. The turn signal will flash 6 times automatically. 135  STARTING AND DRIVING Head Lamp Leveling Rotary Switch Combi-switch (LH Stalk) Inner rotary switch on right hand stalk is provided for head lamp leveling. With the inner rotary switch, Head lamp leveling can be done with head lamp in Low Beam and in ‘ON’ position. Select correct posi- ion before start of trip, when the vehicle is stationary. Depending on the number of passengers and luggage in the vehicle headlamp focus may change. This can be adjusted by rotating the knob to one of the hree level positions. 136 Off” Position The wiper is switched ‘OFF’. Intermittent Wipe Push the stalk upwards to oper- ate intermittent wipe. Inner rotary switch on left hand stalk is provided for intermittent front wiper delay. The switch has five delay timers. Slow Wipe Push the stalk towards position (2) for con- tinuous slow wipe. Fast Wipe Push the

Slow Wipe Push the stalk towards position (2) for con- tinuous slow wipe. Fast Wipe Push the stalk towards position (3) for con- tinuous slow wipe. Flick Wipe (Spring Return) Pull the stalk downwards and hold it for continuous wipe, the wiper continuously wipes across the windshield at low speed till the stalk is released. Front Windshield Washer + Pull the lever little longer, to spray the washer fluid on the windshield. + The windshield wipers will operate for three cycles after the lever is released and for one more cycle after five sec- onds. Manual Mode + Pull the lever little longer, to spray the washer fluid on the windshield. + The windshield wipers will operate for  three cycles after the lever is released and for one more cycle after five sec- onds. Auto Mode (Rain / Light Sensor (if equipped)) If your vehicle is fitted with rain and light sensor, the wipers will automatically wipe the windscreen, if it senses rainfall. Make sure that the wiper stalk is in Auto position. @

wipe the windscreen, if it senses rainfall. Make sure that the wiper stalk is in Auto position. @ NOTE When you crank the engine, the supply to washer motor is momentarily cut off. Rear Wash and Wipe Rear Windshield / Wiper and Washer 1. Turn the rotary knob clockwise and release to operate rear windshield wash and wipe. The windshield wipers will operate for three cycles. 2. Turn the rotary knob counter clockwise such that it aligns its positions with arrow mark to operate rear windshield wiper continuously. STARTING AND DRIVING @ NOTE Rear wiper will not work as long as tail- gate is open Rear Windshield/ Wiper and Washer Switch Turn the rotary knob counter clockwise such that it aligns its positions with the arrow mark and hold it to operate rear windshield wash and wipe function. It will return to ‘Rear wipe’ position as soon as it is released and continues to wipe. Rear Wipe Turn the rotary knob counter clockwise such that it aligns its positions with arrow mark to operate rear

the rotary knob counter clockwise such that it aligns its positions with arrow mark to operate rear windshield wiper continu- ously. 137  STARTING AND DRIVING @ NOTE Horn SEATS ADJUSTMENTS Front Seats Adjustments When you reverse the car with front : F 4 wipers in ‘ON’ condition, the rear wiper will also be ‘ON’. A\ WARNING If you operate, wash and wipe function for more than 15 seconds the controller cuts off the supply to the washer motors to avoid overheating. Manual Adjustments Horn is located on steering wheel. Use it a 3) whenever required. WARNING Driver Seat Following seat adjustments can be carried out manually. 1. Driver Seat Backrest Angle Adjustmen 2. Driver Seat height adjustment 3. Driver Seat forward/backward adjust- ment lever Check out for No Horn zone, where use of horn is prohibited.  ZX WARNING Do not adjust the driver’s seat while ve- hicle is in motion doing so may result in loosing control of the vehicle. 1. Driver Seat Backrest Angle Adjust- ment To change the

result in loosing control of the vehicle. 1. Driver Seat Backrest Angle Adjust- ment To change the seat back rest angle, lean forward slightly and pull up the lever (1). Adjust seat backrest until it reaches de- sired comfortable position. Make sure that lever returns to its original position and seat is securely latched. @ NOTE Adjust the seat backrest until your arms are slightly angled when holding the steering wheel. 2. Driver Seat height adjustment To raise the seat, pull and continue pump- ing the lever (2) in the upward direction until the seat is at the desired height. To lower the seat, pump the lever downward until the seat is at desired height. 3. Driver forward / backward adjust- ment Lift lever (3) and slide the seat forwards or rearwards. Release lever and make sure that seat is securely latched. @ NOTE Adjust the driver seat position in such a way that the driver will be able to oper- ate the control pedals conformably. STARTING AND DRIVING Co-Driver Seat Following seat

to oper- ate the control pedals conformably. STARTING AND DRIVING Co-Driver Seat Following seat adjustments can be carried out manually on Co-Driver seat. 1. Co-Driver Seat Backrest Angle Adjust- ment 2. Co-Driver Seat forward/backward ad- justment lever 1. Co-Driver seat Backrest Angle Ad- justment Similar to driver seat, to change the seat back rest angle, lean forward slightly and pull up the lever (1). Adjust seat backrest until it reaches desired comfortable posi- 139  STARTING AND DRIVING tion. Make sure that lever returns to its original position and seat is securely latched. 2. Co-Driver forward / backward ad- justment Similar to driver seat, lift lever (3) and slide the seat forwards or rearwards. Release lever and make sure that seat is securely latched. Power Seats Adjustments Driver Seat 1. Driver Seat Backrest Angle Adjustment 140 2. Driver Seat height adjustment 3. Driver forward / backward adjustment 1. Driver Seat Backrest Angle Adjust- ment To change the seat back

forward / backward adjustment 1. Driver Seat Backrest Angle Adjust- ment To change the seat back rest angle, lean forward slightly and pull up the lever (1). Adjust seat backrest until it reaches de- sired comfortable position. Make sure that lever returns to its original position and seat is securely latched. NOTE Adjust the seat backrest until your arms are slightly angled when holding the steering wheel. 2. Driver Seat height adjustment To raise the seat, pull and continue pump- ing the lever (2) in the upward direction until the seat is at the desired height. To lower the seat, pump the lever downward until the seat is at desired height. 3. Driver forward / backward adjust- ment Lift lever (3) and slide the seat forwards or rearwards. Release lever and make sure that seat is securely latched. Co-Driver Seat 1. Co-Driver Seat Backrest Angle Adjust- ment 2. Co-Driver Seat height adjustment 3. Co-Driver forward / backward adjust- ment  1. Co-Driver seat Backrest Angle Ad- justment To

3. Co-Driver forward / backward adjust- ment  1. Co-Driver seat Backrest Angle Ad- justment To change the seat back rest angle, lean forward slightly and pull up the lever (1). Adjust seat backrest until it reaches de- sired comfortable position. Make sure that lever returns to its original position and seat is securely latched. 2. Co-Driver Seat height adjustment To raise the seat, pull and continue pump- ing the lever (2) in the upward direction until the seat is at the desired height. To lower the seat, pump the lever downward until the seat is at desired height. 3. Co-Driver forward / backward ad- justment Lift lever (3) and slide the seat forwards or rearwards. Release lever and make sure that seat is securely latched Seat Ventilation To start ventilation, press button once. It has 3 ventilation adjustment in decreas- ing order and LED glows for each press. To Stop the ventilation long press the but- ton for few seconds. Default setting is highest speed on first press. The

long press the but- ton for few seconds. Default setting is highest speed on first press. The ventilated seat by default is set to OFF whenever the vehicle START/STOP button is turned on. STARTING AND DRIVING gy Wl wi we iD Low Do not apply excessive force on venti- lation button as it may get damaged. Button operates with slight finger force as they are electronically controlled. 141  STARTING AND DRIVING To protect ventilated seats- + Use the air ventilation seat ONLY when the vehicle HVAC system is on. + Never use a liquids like alcohol, high viscosity oils or other to spill on venti- lated seats. + Avoid spillage of liquids on the venti- lated seats surface this may lead to blockage of ventilated seat system and may not function properly. * Do not add seat covers, as it will not allow ventilated seats to function prop- erly. + Donot keep plastic covers of seat as it is, as it will not allow ventilated seats to function properly. NOTE Ventilated seats to be vacuum cleaned regularly

allow ventilated seats to function properly. NOTE Ventilated seats to be vacuum cleaned regularly as there are chances of air vent hole blockage after usage. 142 Rear Seats Adjustments Second Row Seat Folding (60 - 40% Split Seat) (If equipped) You can increase the luggage capacity by folding the respective rear seats as re- quired. To fold the seat: + Pull the backrest release knob to fold the seat forward. (Right side door sec- ond row). Lift the seat as shown in the figure.  + Fold the backseat as shown in the fig- ure. + Ensure that ‘foldable arm rest’ is close before seat folding. Follow the same procedure for driver side seat. STARTING AND DRIVING Rear Seats Folding (100%) (If equipped) You can increase the trunk capacity by folding the rear seat. For folding: + Pull the backrest release knob pro- vided on both side simultaneously. + Lift the seat as shown in the figure. 143  STARTING AND DRIVING WARNING MIRRORS + You should always engage the rear Inside Rear View Mirrors (IRVM)

AND DRIVING WARNING MIRRORS + You should always engage the rear Inside Rear View Mirrors (IRVM) seat if you do not need the through loading feature. + If the rear bench seat and seat backrest are not engaged they A could fold forwards, e.g. when brak- SS ing suddenly or in the event of an accident. + The vehicle occupant would thereby be pushed into the seat belt by the + Fold the backseat as shown in the fig- rear bench seat or by the seat back- ure. rest. The seat belt can no longer offer the intended level of protection a and could even cause injuries. * Objects or loads in the trunk cannot be restrained by the seat backrest. There is an increased risk of injury. + Before every trip, make sure that the seat backrests and the rear bench seat/rear seat are engaged and se- curely latched. To adjust the mirror move the mirror up, down or sideways manually to obtain the best rear view. When you drive at night, set the selector tab to select anti-glare mode (if equipped) to reduce glare

you drive at night, set the selector tab to select anti-glare mode (if equipped) to reduce glare from the headlights of ve- hicles behind you.  Use antiglare position only when neces- Sary, as it reduces rear view clarity. Automatic Dimming IRVM (if equipped) 1. Photocell Sensors 2. ON/OFF button Automatic dimming rear view mirror auto- matically controls the glare from the head- lights of the car behind you in night time or low light driving conditions. Press ON/OFF button to turn ON the automatic dimming function. The LED indicator on the IRVM shows the active status of auto dimming function. The auto dimming IRVM is defaults to the ON position whenever the ignition switch is turned ON and it is switched OFF when- ever reverse gear is engaged. For proper operation, keep the photo- cell sensors clean and do not cover the area between the IRVM and the wind- shield. STARTING AND DRIVING Outer Rear View Mirror (ORVM) Motorized ORVM Adjustment (if equipped) The switch to adjust the

Outer Rear View Mirror (ORVM) Motorized ORVM Adjustment (if equipped) The switch to adjust the motorized mirrors is located on the driver’s door. You can ad- just the mirrors when the ignition switch is in the “ACC” or “ON” position. 145  STARTING AND DRIVING To Adjust The Mirror Mirror Folding By Joy Stick Knob 1. Move the mirror selection switch toL You can adjust the outer rear view mirrors (for left side) and R (for right side) to = manually by joy stick knob located in the select the mirror you wish to adjust. driver’s and front passenger’s door panel. 2. Use the four positions of the knob to adjust the rear view mirrors to required position. 146 ORVM Folding Option 1: Manual Folding ORVMs can be folded or unfolded manu- ally. This is applicable only for vehicles which are not equipped with motorized folding provision. Option 2: Auto folding by Smart Key When you lock the vehicle, ORVMs will be folded automatically. When you unlock the vehicle, ORVMs will be unfolded

vehicle, ORVMs will be folded automatically. When you unlock the vehicle, ORVMs will be unfolded automatically. n case to repeated usage, Mirror Fold-  ing/Un-folding will stop functioning and will be re-activated after delay of 2 mins. Dur- ing that period avoid repeated pressing o' Switch. Option 3: Auto Folding by Knob To fold / unfold the ORVMs, keep the Se- lector switch in center position (i.e. neither ‘L’ nor ‘R, position) and then toggle down. This will operate when the ignition switch is in the “ACC” or “ON” position. Sun Visors The sun visors can be pulled down to block the glare coming through the wind- shield. To block the glare from side win- dows, pull down the sun visor and release it from retainer. Swing the sun visor to the side. Vanity Mirror Vanity mirror is provided on the back of the front passenger side sun visor. STARTING AND DRIVING DRIVING SUPPORT SYSTEM Parking Break Mechanical parking brake acting on the rear wheels is provided on the vehicle. To apply the

Break Mechanical parking brake acting on the rear wheels is provided on the vehicle. To apply the parking brake, pull the lever up fully. The parking brakes’ tell-tale light comes on in the instrument cluster. 147  STARTING AND DRIVING To release it, press the release button (1) and push the lever down (2). Parking brakes tell-tale on the instrument cluster will turn ‘OFF’ when the lever is fully re- leased. @ NOTE Apply the parking brake properly before leaving the vehicle and release it before moving. 148 Ensure Before You Park Park the vehicle in a safe place. Switch on the indicator signal before turning to park. erly. The braking distance is consider- ably longer and the wheels could lock. There is an increased danger of skid- ding and accidents. + Apply the parking brake. + Make sure that all window glasses are closed and all lamps are turned ‘OFF’. + At night, put on the parking lights if re- quired. * Remove the key from the ignition switch and lock the vehicle. + Use wheel

lights if re- quired. * Remove the key from the ignition switch and lock the vehicle. + Use wheel chocks if the vehicle is parked on a slope. When parking on a downhill gradient, place the gear lever in ‘Reverse’ posi- tion. While parking on uphill gradient, place the gear lever in the ‘1st’ position. @ NOTE Do not use parking brake for braking unless unavoidable circumstances like when service brake is not working prop  STARTING AND DRIVING Surround View System (SVS) (if equipped) Surround view system displays the sur- roundings around the vehicle to the driver for safe and comfortable drive. SVS assists the driver while reversing and maneuvering the vehicle at lower speeds. Camera Locations As Shown In The Im- ages Rear View Camera Front Camera Right Side Camera 149  STARTING AND DRIVING Activation of SVS The function is activated when: 1. Surround view soft switch is pressed 2. The shift lever is in D (Drive), N (Neu- tral) or R (Reverse) and vehicle speed is under 17 kmph and

shift lever is in D (Drive), N (Neu- tral) or R (Reverse) and vehicle speed is under 17 kmph and surround view soft switch is pressed. 3. Engage the reverse gear and vehicle speed is below 17 kmph. Deactivation ofSVS SVS function is deactivated when one of the following step is performed. 150 1. Surround view soft switch is pressed again 2. Vehicle speed is more than 17 kmph 3. Disengage the reverse gear @ NOTE + When vehicle speed is more than 17 kmph, the SVS function will turn off. The function will not automati- cally turn on again, even though ve- hicle speed gets below 17 kmph. Press the switch again, to turn on the function. + When vehicle speed is more than 17 Kmph SVS screen will be switch to only rear view during reverse gear. + During vehicle speed is more than 17 Kmph and driver activate through soft switch/hard switch rear view shall display to user. Surround View System Features The Surround view system has the follow- ing features 1. 2D View 3D View Front Corner View

Features The Surround view system has the follow- ing features 1. 2D View 3D View Front Corner View Rear Corner View Full View Settings Cancel Icon 1. 2D View N Oa PON By selecting 2D Icon which is available on the right corner side of the infotainment screen, cameras provide about 360 de- gree 2D top view of vehicle’s surrounding. In 2D top view mode 4 camera icons will be present around the model car image to switch to different sides of view. The differ- ent 2D views are as follows. |. 2D Top view + Front view Il. 2D Top view + Rear view Ill. 2D Top view + Left view IV. 2D Top view + Right view  2D Top + Rear view STARTING AND DRIVING 2. 3D View By selecting 3D Icon, cameras provide about 360 degree 3D view of vehicle’s sur- rounding on the Infotainment screen In 3D mode view 8 camera icons will be present around the model car image to switch to different angle of view. 3D view with 8 different views 3. Front Corner View If driver wants to focus on the front corner view, then the

8 different views 3. Front Corner View If driver wants to focus on the front corner view, then the icon can be pressed to se- lect the view. By selecting front corner view icon, cam- era provides a focused view on the front left and right corners to provide a better visibility for safe maneuver. 151  STARTING AND DRIVING a Fig 3. Front corner view If driver wants to focus on the rear corner view, then the icon can be pressed to se- lect the view. 4. Rear Corner View If driver wants to focus on the rear corner view, then the icon can be pressed to se- lect the view. By selecting rear corner view icon, camera provides a focused view on the rear left and right corners to provide a better visi- bility for safe maneuver. 152 Fig 4. Rear corner view 5. Full View |. 2D Full front view By selecting 2D front view Icon which is available on the model car image, cam- eras provides about wide 2D front view of vehicle’s surrounding on the Infotainment screen. Press full view button to view front

view of vehicle’s surrounding on the Infotainment screen. Press full view button to view front objects closer and press the same button to go back to the normal 2D front view. 2D Full Front view Il. 2D Full Rear view By selecting 2D rear view Icon which is available on the model car image, cam- eras provides about wide 2D view of vehi- cle’s surrounding on the Infotainment screen. Press full view button to view rear objects closer and press the same button to go back to the normal 2D rear view. 2D Full Rear View Ill. 2D Full Left view By selecting 2D left view Icon which is available on the model car image, cam- eras provides about wide 2D view of vehi- cle’s surrounding on the Infotainment screen. Press full view button to view left objects closer and press the same button to go back to the normal 2D left view.  2D Full left view IV. 2D Full Right view By selecting 2D right view Icon which is available on the model car image, cam- eras provides about wide 2D view of vehi- cle’s

which is available on the model car image, cam- eras provides about wide 2D view of vehi- cle’s surrounding on the Infotainment screen. Press full view button to view right objects closer and press the same button to go back to the normal 2D right view. 2D Full Right view 6. Settings + Byselecting the settings icon available on the infotainment screen, driver can change the settings as required. + User can change the content settings based on the user choice. + User can change the front and rear de- fault view to any of the view i.e., either normal view or top view SVS front view default mode settings SVS rear view default mode settings 7. Cancel Icon By selecting the cancel icon which is avail- able on the top right corner of the infotain- STARTING AND DRIVING ment screen, user can exit from the sur- round view system function. It can be used for all the SVS features such as 2D, 3D, front & rear corner views. It cannot be visible when vehicle gear state is reverse gear. Understanding

& rear corner views. It cannot be visible when vehicle gear state is reverse gear. Understanding Guidelines Indication Static Guidelines Dynamic Guidelines 153  Red Line Indicates, if rear objects are in this colored zone, you have to stop the vehicle and not allowed to go backward. If you still go backward, your vehicle will hit the object. Yellow Line Indicates, if rear objects are in this colored zone, you have to take utmost care. How- ever, objects fall in this zone, may not hit vehicle. 154 Green Line Indicates, if rear object is in this colored zone, you have to be cautious. Still you can go backward safely. PDC Guidelines Settings User can change the timer settings for PDC guidelines which is available on the infotainment display By selecting the infotainment settings icon available on the infotainment screen use able to open the settings options available in the system. The system will display the below screen when user select the settings icon. Select the driver assistance

will display the below screen when user select the settings icon. Select the driver assistance icon which is avail- able on the screen. n driver assistance system will provide many other options in that user should se- lect the park assist delay timer. System will provide three different option such as Osec, 5 sec and 10sec. Based on the user choice he/she can se- lect any option from the three.  Blind View Monitor Blind view monitor will helps to reduce the crashes that happens when driver is being overtaken or changing the lanes. This system should work in ignition on and run condition irrespective of the vehicle speed. We can enable/disable the blind view monitor in HMI settings based on the user choice. Activation of Blind View Monitor + This feature is activated when user turn on the left/right turn indicator. * On activating the right turn indicator, right side rear view should be dis- played on the infotainment along with static overlays. Right rear side view when turn on the

dis- played on the infotainment along with static overlays. Right rear side view when turn on the right indicator * On activating the left turn indicator, lef side rear view should be displayed on infotainment along with the static over- lays. Ler view act al Left rear side view when turn on the left in- dicator STARTING AND DRIVING @ NOTE The above images are for reference purpose only. Deactivation of Blind View Monitor + This feature is deactivated when user turn off the left/right turn indicator. Understanding Static Overlays Indica- tion Red Line: Indicates, if rear objects are be- hind this colored line, you are not allowed ‘o change the lane. If you still change the lane, your vehicle will hit the object. Yellow Line: Indicates, if rear objects are behind this colored line, you have to take utmost care. However, objects fall in this zone, may not hit vehicle. Green Line: Indicates, if rear object is be- hind this colored line, you have to be cau- ious. Still you can safely

if rear object is be- hind this colored line, you have to be cau- ious. Still you can safely change the lane. @ NOTE * When SVS is in active condition then user turn on the left/right turn 155  STARTING AND DRIVING indicator then system should display the blind view monitoring and if user turn off the turn indicator then sys- tem return back to the SVS screen. When SVS is not in active condition, user turn on the left/right turn indica- tor then system should display the blind view monitoring. Once user turn off the turn indicator then sys- tem return back to infotainment home screen. Camera Precautions: A\ WARNING 156 As the camera is, IP protected, do not detach, disassemble or modify in any manner from the actual posi- tion. This will show required visual information in display. Do not use camera when tailgate is open. If tailgate is open, visual infor- mation may not be the actual rear view of the vehicle & system will warn with message ‘Tail Gate Open, Please close. Do not use

rear view of the vehicle & system will warn with message ‘Tail Gate Open, Please close. Do not use camera when driver/pas- senger door is open. If any one of the door is open, visual information may not be the actual view of the vehicle & system will warn with mes- sage ‘Door Open, Please close’. And also corresponding door side display shall be in dark image. Do not use camera when ORVM is folded. If ORVM is folded, visual in- formation may not be the actual view of the vehicle & system will warn with message ‘ORVM Folded’. When the camera is operated under fluorescent lights, sodium light or mercury light etc., illuminated areas on the lens may appear to flicker in the display. Do not attach any advertisement or styling or any kind of stickers on top of camera. If this happens, camera cannot provide you the visual image and may damage camera. Do not add any accessory, which will obstruct camera field of view. Cleaning Camera 1. Due to environmental reasons, dust, mud or fog may

camera field of view. Cleaning Camera 1. Due to environmental reasons, dust, mud or fog may accumulate on the camera lens. So regularly clean the camera lens. Use water to clean the camera lens. Do not use extreme cold or hot water. Rapid changes in temperature may brittle the camera lens. Do not apply High Pressure water for cleaning. Wipe the camera lens with soft cloth. Do not use hard cloth or material to wipe the camera lens. This will cause scratches on the camera, and leads to deteriorated visual image on the dis- play. Do not apply organic solvent, car wax, window cleaner or glass coat to clean he camera. This may damage the lens Do not use chemical solvents such as strong detergents containing high alka- line or volatile organic solvents (gaso-  line, acetone etc). This may damage the camera lens Do not apply heavy force on lens, while cleaning. Do not remove mud, snow on the cam- era lens using stick or hard material. Use normal water and soft cloth. ZX WARNING The camera

cam- era lens using stick or hard material. Use normal water and soft cloth. ZX WARNING The camera uses fish eye lens. So the size of the objects or in the dis- play may differ from the actual size and distances in low light condi- tions, the screen may darken or image may appear faint. If the tyre sizes are changed, the po- sition of the fixed guidelines dis- played on the screen may change. During rainy conditions, image may get obscured. In such conditions, do not depend on camera view. The camera used in the vehicle, may not reproduce the same color of the real object. Do not apply any kind of force on the camera. High humidity and variation in ambi- ent temperature may result into con- densation inside the camera lens, which may further result into degra- dation of camera video feed on the screen. It is recommended that not to rely on camera video feed for parking assistance in such scenario. This phenomenon is temporary and will be automatically recovered with reduction in

such scenario. This phenomenon is temporary and will be automatically recovered with reduction in humidity and less vari- ation in ambient temperature. The area displayed by the camera is limited. The camera does not dis- play objects that are close to or below the bumper, underneath the vehicle, or objects out of the cam- era’s field of view. The area dis- played on the screen may vary according to vehicle orientation or road conditions. STARTING AND DRIVING AX WARNING SVS system is an aid only. User need to check surrounding for safety. Rear View Camera Rear View Camera is a visual reverse guiding system. When reversing or park- ing, make sure that there are no persons, animals or objects in the area where you are reversing. Activation This system will start, if reverse gear is en- gaged, or park assist button (if equipped) 157  STARTING AND DRIVING is pressed or manual activation is done through Infotainment screen. Deactivation System will stop, if reverse gear is disen- gaged, or

through Infotainment screen. Deactivation System will stop, if reverse gear is disen- gaged, or park assist button (if equipped) is pressed. If started through infotainment, the system can be stopped using a cross button on in- fotainment screen. The display will be shown on the infotain- ment screen. Understanding Guidelines Indication A Please Reverse Carefully ! a Green’ Yellow Red Static guidelines Yellow Red Dynamic guidelines Green Line You can safely reverse the vehicle, but be cautious if objects fall in this zone. Yellow Line You have to take utmost care if objects fall in this zone. However, the objects may not hit vehicle. Red Line Red line indicates that you have to stop re- versing the vehicle. If you still go back- wards, the car will hit the obstacle. Rear View Camera System Precautions Area Displayed on Screen The rear view camera system displays an image of the view from the bumper of the rear area of the vehicle. 158  The area displayed on the screen may vary

from the bumper of the rear area of the vehicle. 158  The area displayed on the screen may vary according to vehicle orientation conditions. Objects, which are close to either cor- ner of the bumper or under the bumper, cannot be seen on the screen. The camera uses a special lens. The distance of the image that appears on the screen differs from the actual dis- tance. The camera may not display items that are located higher than the camera’s field of view. When sharp up gradient behind the vehicle cS STARTING AND DRIVING @ NOTE The distance guidelines will appear to be further from the vehicle than the ac- tual distance. Because of this, objects will appear to be closer than they actually are. In the same way, there will be a margin of error between the guidelines and the actual distance/course on the road. When sharp down gradient behind the vehicle 159  STARTING AND DRIVING The distance guidelines will appear to be further from the vehicle than the ac- tual distance. Because of

guidelines will appear to be further from the vehicle than the ac- tual distance. Because of this, objects will appear to be closer than they actually are. In the same way, there will be a margin of error between the guidelines and the actual distance/course on the road. When any part of the vehicle sags A margin of error When any part of the vehicle sags due to he number of passengers or the distribu- ion of the load, there is a margin of error between the fixed guide lines on the screen and the actual distance/course on he road. When _ approaching sional objects three-dimen- The distance guidelines are displayed ac- cording to flat surfaced objects (such as the road). It is not possible to determine the position of three-dimensional objects (such as vehicles) using the distance guidelines. When approaching a three-di- mensional object. Distance guidelines  Visually check the surroundings and the area behind the vehicle. On the screen, i appears that a truck is parked at point B.

and the area behind the vehicle. On the screen, i appears that a truck is parked at point B. However, in reality if you back up to poin A, you will hit the truck. On the screen, i appears that Ais closest and C is furthes away. However, in reality, the distance to Aand C is the same, and B is further away from A and C. Vehicle width guidelines STARTING AND DRIVING Visually check the surroundings and the area behind the vehicle. In the case shown below, the truck appears to be outside of he vehicle width guidelines and the vehi- cle does not look as if it hits the truck. However, the rear body of the truck may actually cross over the vehicle width guidelines. In reality if you back up as guided by the vehicle width guidelines, the vehicle may hit the truck. 161  STARTING AND DRIVING Park Assist System (Front and Rear) Park Assist System is an electronic park- ing aid that assist you to park vehicle safely when in reverse gear mode. It also provides front part assist (if equipped) if

park vehicle safely when in reverse gear mode. It also provides front part assist (if equipped) if your vehicle speed is below 10Kmph and Front part assist option is enabled through infotainment screen. It provides audio, visual information through vehicle infotainment system. Se- lect this feature in infotainment display to see any obstacle behind/front of the vehi- cle. The system also displays the Park assist screen when the reverse gear is engaged. 162 WARNING 0 to 25 cm obstacle detection perform- ance is not guaranteed due to ultrasonic sensor technology limitation. Variant where infotainment display is not present and audio warning is given through a buzzer, on activating the Park Assist system, a tone will be played within first two seconds to indicate the proper functioning of the system. After these two seconds, normal functioning of the system will continue. If no tone is heard for first two seconds, it shall mean that Park Assist System is faulty. The owner should, in that

for first two seconds, it shall mean that Park Assist System is faulty. The owner should, in that case, go to the nearest dealer for rectifica- tion. Front Park Assist System (FPAS) (If equipped) Activation Conditions 1. Front park assist option can be enabled through Infotainment screen. Go to settings Select Driver Assistance  2. If reverse gear is engaged and Front park assist option is enabled through info- tainment screen. 3. if user has turned ON Low speed acti- vation from user settings menu and vehi- cle speed is below 10 kmph (Forward Direction) and some object is detected in the front of the vehicle then audio warning for 10 sec will sound, while the visual warning will continue to be shown till the object is present. Deactivation Condition 1. System will stop, if reverse gear is dis- engaged. 2. If vehicle is speed is above 10Kmph. 3. If started through infotainment, the sys- tem can be stopped using a Front Park As- sist option on infotainment screen. 25-30 | RedZone

sys- tem can be stopped using a Front Park As- sist option on infotainment screen. 25-30 | RedZone [Continuous Beep 31-60 | Yellow Zone | Fast Beep 61-100 | Green Zone | Slow Beep STARTING AND DRIVING Reverse Park Assist System (RPAS) Activation Condition This system will start, if reverse gear is en- gaged, or park assist button (if equipped) is pressed or manual activation is done through Infotainment screen. Deactivation Condition System will stop, if reverse gear is disen- gaged, or park assist button (if equipped) is pressed. If started through infotainment, the system can be stopped using a cross button on in- fotainment screen. 163  STARTING AND DRIVING 25 - 40 Continuous Beep 41-80 Fast Beep 81-120 Slow Beep @ NOTE + Audio warning may come from Info- tainment system speaker or through Buzzer, depending on vehicle model and configuration. Park Assist System Limitations Park Assist system is not a collision avoid- ing system. It is solely the driver’s respon- sibility to park

system is not a collision avoid- ing system. It is solely the driver’s respon- sibility to park the vehicle safely. Park Assist feature works on ultra sound echo technology, due to which perform- ance is not guaranteed in following sce- narios: + Ifthe object has a sharp edge surface, where surface may divert echoes from sensor reception. 164 If object is mesh fence made up of thin wires, where echoes can’t be given by the surface. Fast moving objects passes in the sen- sor’s field of detection, where echoes are not processed by the system. If object is made/covered by foam or sponge or snow where ultrasonic sound signals are absorbed. Objects close to the rear bumper can go undetected by the Reverse Park Assist’s field of detection. Driver should use extreme caution while parking the vehicle. If height of the bumper is changed due to alteration to the suspension or other causes. If the sensor areas are extremely hot from direct sunlight or cold due to freezing weather. If Sensors are

sensor areas are extremely hot from direct sunlight or cold due to freezing weather. If Sensors are covered by a hand, sticker, accessory, etc. If ultrasonic noise is present around Vehicle due to other vehicle sensors, horn, engine, air braking sys-tem (large vehicles), Exhaust Fans, Wire- less transmitters or mobile phones. if the vehicle speed exceeds 10kmph, he system will not warn you even hough objects are detected, error message ‘Vehicle Speed is high, drive slowly!’ will appear. + Driving on uneven road surfaces e.g. Gravel, unpaved roads, Artificial Speed Breakers, or gradient. + Poles of square/rectangular cross sec- ion might not be detected due to the ultrasonic technology limitation. + If trailer is connected. A\ WARNING Due to any reason, if the sensor gets misaligned or loses its intended fitment position, contact your dealer for refit- ment. Turning the ignition ‘OFF’ ‘while the park assist feature is active would disable it.  @ NOTE Parking sensor performance may

‘while the park assist feature is active would disable it.  @ NOTE Parking sensor performance may affect in case use of unauthorized registration plate. Use RTO authorized size regis- tration plate only. High security registra- tion plate dimension — 500 x 120 x 2THK (Approx). Park Assist System Preventive Mainte- nance/cleaning 1. Regularly clean the sensors and keep them free from dust, ice, mud, water, chewing gum etc. for proper working of the system. Use a smooth cloth for cleaning. 2. Do not use water at high pressure for cleaning the sensor. 3. Do not cover the sensors. This will in- terrupt park assist performance. 4. Do not remove mud, snow on the sen- sors using stick or hard material. Use normal water and soft cloth. STARTING AND DRIVING Park Assist Malfunction Indications In case of park assist system malfunc- tions, fault screen may appear on the info- tainment system. Reason for this fault may be 1. Body Control Module Failure 2. Sensor Malfunction 3. Partner components

for this fault may be 1. Body Control Module Failure 2. Sensor Malfunction 3. Partner components such as Infotain- ment music system, Instrument Clus- ter failure 165  166  INTERIOR FEATURES CLIMATE CONTROL Air Distribution The Climate Control regulates the temperature inside the vehicle and filter the dust particles in cabin based on the user set temperature settings. The air is distributed through the vents in the passenger compartment as shown below: 167  INTERIOR FEATURES Air Vents Dashboard Side And Front Centre Vent Air vents are available on the dashboard. The direction of air flow can be adjusted using sliders on the respective vents. Front Center Vent Dashboard Side Vent 168 Rear Centre Vent Rear AC vents are available between two front seats. It can be switched ‘ON’ pro- vided that front AC is switched ‘ON’. It can be switched ‘ON/OFF’ by rotating switch. The speed can be increased by ro- tating the knob towards ‘HIGH’. Rear Center Vent  HVAC SYSTEM 1. Manual Knob Control

by ro- tating the knob towards ‘HIGH’. Rear Center Vent  HVAC SYSTEM 1. Manual Knob Control System 2. FATC (Fully Automatic Temperature Control System) (If equipped) 3. ETC (Electronic Temperature Control System) (If equipped) 1. Manual Knob Control System 1. Air Distribution Control 2. Blower Speed Control 3. Temperature Control 4. AC ON/OFF Switch 5. Fresh air / Recirculation mode Air Distribution Control This is to select the air distribution pattern as described in the table. Directs air through the center and side air vents > @|Directs air through the center, v ri side and foot well vents Directs air through the foot well e vu ri air vents . Directs air through the defroster & ie] foot well vents (Default fresh air mode) GH? Directs air through the defroster vents (Default fresh air mode) INTERIOR FEATURES Blower Speed Control OFF HIGH This is to turn ‘ON’ the blower and select desired blower speed. Temperature Control LOW HIGH The temperature control knob allows you to adjust

blower speed. Temperature Control LOW HIGH The temperature control knob allows you to adjust the temperature. The tempera- ture can be increased by rotating the knob towards the red segment (clockwise) and decreased by rotating it towards the blue segment (anti-clockwise). 169  INTERIOR FEATURES AC ON / OFF Press the button to , switch ON/OFF the AC. Fe] The indicator lamp in the |= a button will light up when AC is ON. When AC is switched ‘ON’, engine idling RPM increases marginally to adjust the AC compressor load. When desired temperature is achieved AC trips ‘OFF’ automatically. @ NOTE * Condensate may drip from the un- derside of the vehicle when it is in cooling mode. Traces of water on the ground are normal and are not a sign of leakage or malfunction. + Ventilate the vehicle for a brief pe- riod during warm weather. This will speed up the cooling process and the desired vehicle interior temper- ature will be reached quickly. + Never cover the air vents or air in- take grills

interior temper- ature will be reached quickly. + Never cover the air vents or air in- take grills in the vehicle interior. 170 + If the AC is not used for a long pe- riod, such as during winter, it may not give the best performance when you start using it again. Operate the AC at least once a month to main- tain optimum performance. + While you start the vehicle after a long duration (more than 15 days), follow the procedure for better AC performance. * Start the vehicle and allow the en- gine to idle for 2-3 minutes. AC should be off in this period. * Switch the AC on and run it for an- other 2~3 minutes while the engine idles. This circulates the refrigerant and oil to lubricate the internal parts of the air-conditioning system. Fresh Air / Recirculation Mode Press the switch to ac- tivate / deactivate air recirculation mode. Press to ‘ON’ or ‘OFF’ Recirculation mode: (Indicator light ‘ON’) Air inside the passenger compartment re- circulates. No fresh air enters the compart- ment.

‘ON’) Air inside the passenger compartment re- circulates. No fresh air enters the compart- ment. Always use when: * Driving on a dusty road or through tun- nel. * Onsignals or slow traffic to avoid traffic pollution. * Maximum cooling is required. Fresh Air mode: (Indicator light ‘OFF’) Fresh air is drawn into the vehicle. Always use when: + Discomfort is felt or windows are fog- ging up. GP e + Using tp or Hy air flow modes during demist / defrost. + Using normal heating mode.  Functions And Settings Here are the recommended basic settings of the control elements of air conditioning sys' These may vary depending on individual requirements and weather conditions: Functions Air Flow Direction Control Knob Po: Blower Speed jon Air Temperature INTERIOR FEATURES em for the respective operating modes. Button Position Fresh / Recirculation air mode ( <= AC ON / OFF ee ault) Normal heating 2” or 3% dot Desired temp. Fresh air mode As desired . Briefly switch ON to Quick heating To MAX speed

or 3% dot Desired temp. Fresh air mode As desired . Briefly switch ON to Quick heating To MAX speed and {To the extreme right Fresh air mode then |As desired then 2" or 3 dot up to the stop . . Recirculation mode Normal Cooling 1% to 34 dot Desired temperature | Recirculation mode |Switched ON : . To MAX speed and_ | To the extreme left | . , Quick Cooling then 2 or 3" dot up to the stop Recirculation mode | Switched ON Demisting 2"4 or 3" dot Desired temperature Fresh air mode (De- |Switched ON (Op- ault) tional) Defrosting To MAX speed Desired temperature Fresh air mode (De- ) Switched ON (Op- tional) 171  INTERIOR FEATURES 2. FATC - Fully Automatic Tempera- ture Control System [If equipped] seis, AC compressor ON/OFF Blower speed control toggle switch Maximum defrost Rear window demister Fresh air / recirculation Air distribution (mode) OFF mode Auto ON selection CP ONAAPWN Temperature control toggle switch 10. Xpress cooling 172 11. In car Sensor Display Screen FATC display is

control toggle switch 10. Xpress cooling 172 11. In car Sensor Display Screen FATC display is shown on main display screen. FATC functions can be controlled using both the FATC control panel and the touch screen display. Whenever the user selects any switch or moves the toggle switch, then the display unit will show the relevant climate Informa- tion. Also, when the display is not in climate mode then climate information will be dis- played on the all-time display available on the top bar and widget. AC ON / OFF Select the AC ON/OFF switch to turn the air condi- tioning ON or OFF. The AC icon activated on the display when the AC is ON. Blower Speed Control Toggle Switch Move toggle switch up & down to increase & de- crease the blower speed. Maximum Defrost 1. It directs the main air- flow towards wind- screen for _ faster defrosting. (It also overrides any mode selection you may have made). 2. When you turn off the maximum de- frost, the system returns to its former settings.  For

made). 2. When you turn off the maximum de- frost, the system returns to its former settings.  For your safety make sure you have a clear view through all the windows be- fore driving. Rear Window Demister Select the rear window demister switch to turn it ON or OFF. The system will be deactivated after 15 min of continuous operation. REAR Gy) Fresh Air / Recirculation 1. When the recirculation switch is turned ON, air from the vehicle’s inte- rior is sent throughout the system. 2. When the recirculation switch is turned OFF, air from outside enters into the cabin (fresh mode). Whenever discom- fort is felt, switch to fresh air mode. oS) The outside air intakes for the climate control systems are at the base of wind- screen. Keep this area clear from leaves and other debris. Use recirculation mode for faster heating and cooling. However, keeping the system in recirculation mode - particularly when the AC is in OFF - can cause fogging of windows. When reverse gear is selected, air inlet

when the AC is in OFF - can cause fogging of windows. When reverse gear is selected, air inlet may switch to recirculation mode if it is in fresh air mode, to prevent exhaust fumes from entering the cabin. INTERIOR FEATURES Air Distribution (mode) In AUTO mode, the FATC system will regulate the mode automatically. How- ever, user override is pos- sible with the use of MODE switch to select the desired airflow mode. Each time you select the MODE switch, he display shows the mode selected. » ¢|Directs air through the center and 1 | side air vents <> ¢|Directs air through the center, side 1” | and foot well vents ¢|Directs air through the foot well air 21 | vents Directs air through the defroster & Spt foot well vents (De-fault fresh air mode) Directs air through the defroster vents (Default fresh air mode) 173  INTERIOR FEATURES OFF Mode Select the OFF switch to turn the system ‘OFF’. OFF will be displayed on the info- tainment screen. Auto ON Selection To put the automatic climate

OFF will be displayed on the info- tainment screen. Auto ON Selection To put the automatic climate control in fully automatic mode: 1. Select the ‘AUTO’ switch. 2. Set the desired temperature by toggle switch. The display will show all the functions during ‘AUTO’ mode. 3. The system automatically selects the proper mix of conditioned and / or heated air that will, as quickly as pos- sible, raise or lower the interior temper- ature to your preference. 4. When you set the temperature to its lower limit (Lo) or its upper limit (Hi), the system runs at full cooling or heat- ing only. It does not regulate the inte- rior temperature. 174 @ NOTE In ‘AUTO’ mode, the FATC system will regulate the blower speed automati- cally. Semi-automatic Operation You can manually select various functions of the cli- mate control system when it is in fully automatic mode. All other features remain automatically controlled. Making any manual selection causes the word ‘AUTO’ in the display to go OFF and the

controlled. Making any manual selection causes the word ‘AUTO’ in the display to go OFF and the overridden setting is dis- played. System will remain in semiauto- matic mode till ‘AUTO’ is selected again. Temperature Control Move the temperature con- trol toggle switch up to in- creases the temperature of the air. The desired temper- ature will be increased by steps of 0.5°C. User can select temperature range from 18°C to 30°C. Move the toggle switch down to reduce the temperature. When you set the temperature to its lower limit (Lo) or its upper limit (Hi), the system runs at full cooling or heating only. It does- n't regulate the interior temperature. Xpress Cool XPRESS Cooling can be turned ON/OFF by select- a» ing XPRESS COOL icon. This helps cabin to reach to comfort temperatures quickly by opti- mally setting the air conditioning to maxi- mum cooling. Also, if required, the driver window will roll down to flush the hot air from inside the cabin. Once cabin has been sufficiently

window will roll down to flush the hot air from inside the cabin. Once cabin has been sufficiently flushed, the system will announce to take driver window’s roll up which can be taken up using window winding switch. Driver side window may roll down, if: * The cabin temperature is more than outside temperature. + If itis not raining. + Vehicle Speed is less than 40 kmph. Further, after sufficiently cooling the cabin, the Xpress cooling function will auto switch  off and revert back to customer pre-se- lected settings. Xpress cooling functionality is used to im- prove the HVAC system performance in case of cabin temperature being consider- ably greater than outside air temperature. The system will be deactivated automati- cally after 500 sec of continuous opera- tion. The Xpress Cool function can only be turned ON if the Ambient temperature is above 18 degree Celsius. Sensors (FATC only) 1.Solar Sensor FATC system is fitted with three sensors. (if equipped) Solar sensor is on the top of

Sensor FATC system is fitted with three sensors. (if equipped) Solar sensor is on the top of the dash- board at the right hand side of defroster grill. 2. Outside Ambient Temperature (OAT) Sensor Outside Ambient Temperature (OAT) sen- sor located under the front bumper grill. INTERIOR FEATURES 3. In-car sensor on control panel In-car sensor is located on FATC control panel. * Do not cover or spill any liquid on sensors. . Do not cover sensor, this may cause the sensor to malfunction. This may lead to FATC not function- ing to desired level. Cabin Air Purification (If equipped) The Climate Control System fitted with ad- vance filter for cabin air purification. + Pollen Filter: The filter takes care of dust particles and other pollutants. + PM2.5 Combi filter: This high efficiency filter cleans the PM2.5 micron particles and harmful gases coming from at- mosphere pollution and volatile or- ganic compounds 175  INTERIOR FEATURES @ NOTE Replace the Filter as per Mainte- nance schedule.

or- ganic compounds 175  INTERIOR FEATURES @ NOTE Replace the Filter as per Mainte- nance schedule. More frequent filter replacement are required/ recom- mended in case of vehicle is driven in heavy dusty conditions. If the ve- hicle is driven in heavy dusty condi- tions more frequent __ filter replacement are required. Replace the filter if you find poor ventilation, Cooling or Demisting and poor Air Quality Index (AQI). Air Quality Index (If equipped) Climate control system fitted with FATC calculates Air Quality Index (AQI) of cabin using PM2.5 AQI Index. FATC System in AUTO Mode automat- ically sets the blower speed and switches to recirculation air mode to improve AQI inside the cabin. The calculated AQI is displayed on dis- play unit along with severity index. 176 AQI calculation will be effective after 30 seconds after ignition ON and no value will be displayed during this period. If the AQI does not improve in some time get the sensor and Cabin filter inspected. 3. ETC -

If the AQI does not improve in some time get the sensor and Cabin filter inspected. 3. ETC - Electronic Temperature Con- trol System [If equipped] AC compressor ON/OFF Blower speed control toggle switch Maximum defrost Fresh air / recirculation Air distribution (mode) OFF mode Temperature control toggle switch 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7.  INTERIOR FEATURES the AC is in OFF - can cause fogging of ETC functions can be controlled using the ETC control panel. AC ON/OFF Select the AC ON/OFF switch to turn the air condi- tioning ON or OFF. Move toggle switch up & down to increase & de- crease the blower speed. Maximum Defrost 1. It directs the main air- flow towards wind- screen for faster defrosting. (It also overrides any mode selection you may have made). 2. When you turn off the maximum de- frost, the system returns to its former settings. For your safety make sure you have a clear view through all the windows be- fore driving. Fresh Air / Recirculation 1. When the recirculation switch is

all the windows be- fore driving. Fresh Air / Recirculation 1. When the recirculation switch is turned ON, air from the vehicle’s inte- rior is sent throughout the system. A=) 2. When the recirculation switch is turned OFF, air from outside enters into the cabin (fresh mode). Whenever discom- fort is felt, switch to fresh air mode. @ NOTE The outside air intakes for the climate control systems are at the base of wind- screen. Keep this area clear from leaves and other debris. Use recirculation mode for faster heating and cooling. However, keeping the system in recirculation mode - particularly when windows. @ NOTE When reverse gear is selected, air inlet may switch to recirculation mode if it is in fresh air mode, to prevent exhaust fumes from entering the cabin. Air Distribution (mode) Each time you select the MODE switch, ollowing modes are selected. Directs air through the center and side air vents Directs air through the foot well air vents Directs air through the defroster & ‘if

side air vents Directs air through the foot well air vents Directs air through the defroster & ‘if | foot well vents (De-fault fresh air mode) > 2 a ww 177  INTERIOR FEATURES OFF Mode Select the OFF switch to jj ‘urn the system ‘OFF’. OFF will be displayed on the in- ‘otainment screen. Temperature Control Move the temperature con- rol toggle switch up to in- creases the temperature of of he air. The desired temperature will be in- creased by steps of 0.5°C. User can select emperature range from 18°C to 30°C. Move the toggle switch down to reduce the emperature. When you set the temperature to its lower limit (Lo) or its upper limit (Hi), the system runs at full cooling or heating only. It does- n't regulate the interior temperature. 178 FASCIA SWITCHES Option | by = Hazard warning switch . Tail gate opening Option II Hazard warning switch Tail gate opening Central lock/unlock Surround View System (SVS) 1. 2. 3. 4. 5.  Front Fog Lamps (if equipped) The front fog lamps are located on

View System (SVS) 1. 2. 3. 4. 5.  Front Fog Lamps (if equipped) The front fog lamps are located on the ront bumper. In poor visibility conditions due to fog, snow or rain, the fog lamps make visibility better and make it easier for other road users to see you. It turns to ‘ON’ when the fog lamp switch is turned on when the ignition is ‘ON’ and when the po- sition and parking/ head lamp is ‘ON’. An indicator on front fog lamp knob will come on when the front fog light is ‘ON’. Hazard Warning Switch Press the hazard warning switch to acti- vate the hazard warning. All the turn signal lamps will flash simultaneously. To turn OFF, press the switch again. Tail Gate Opening To unlatch the tail gate, press the switch located on fascia switch. Central Lock/unlock To open the door, press the Lock/unlock door switch located on the fascia switch. Surround View System Surround view system displays the sur- roundings around the vehicle to the driver for permitting safe and comfortable drive. SVS

the sur- roundings around the vehicle to the driver for permitting safe and comfortable drive. SVS will be activated when soft switch is pressed. INTERIOR FEATURES POWER SUNROOF It bring natural light and fresh air into pas- senger compartment .The cabin becomes more illuminated and bright which gives pleasant feeling while driving and makes driving experience more enjoyable and re- laxed. Sunroof allows air to flow evenly from the roof which is more quieter and less intru- sive than wind blowing through a side win- dow. Sunroof can be operated by Manual Switch, Voice Command and by Rain De- tection/Vehicle Lock. 179  INTERIOR FEATURES Manual Switch Push Sunroof-Closing (to tilt Up/Down) Tst/Detent qe) PL en AS 2nd Detent 2nd Detent Wi O Vehicle aw fi 1st Detent Sunroof Open This switch is used to open, close, tilt up & tilt down the sunroof as and when re- quired with switch intended operation. 1. Pull the knob away from the windshield to open the sunroof. It will be having two

operation. 1. Pull the knob away from the windshield to open the sunroof. It will be having two detents. * 1st detent Manual (long press) to open and stop at desired position. * 2nd detent Express (one touch) to open Sunroof completely. 2. Push the knob towards the windshield to close the sunroof. It will be having 180 two detents. + 1st detent Manual (long press) to close and stop at desired position. * 2nd detent Express (one touch) to close Sunroof completely. 3. Press at the center of the knob for tilt up/down function. Sunroof switch mounted in overhead console near roof lamp. Sunshade Open Position Sunshade Close Position Sunroof Voice Command Ensure vehicle is in IGN ON/Engine run condition. + Enable voice recognition via steering wheel switch or TATA Assist icon from the infotainment screen.  * System will prompted with “How can | help?”. Give the “sunroof open/close” com- mand. Sunroof will be opened/closed. Warning for Voice Command Speak the commands /Instruction in a

mand. Sunroof will be opened/closed. Warning for Voice Command Speak the commands /Instruction in a neutral English accent for best results. Do not take long pauses (greater than 1 second) while speaking the words in a command. Speak the words of the command at a constant rate. Avoid varying your pitch and volume while speaking the commands. Speak clearly and loudly at a reasonable speed. INTERIOR FEATURES + Ensure that there is no noise distur- bance when you speak the commands like, other passengers in the vehicle are talking or there is lot of wind noise. Disturbance from external sound sources may result in poor voice recognition. + Always face forward while speaking your commands as the voice recogni- tion quality is best in this orientation. For more information on sunroof voice commands, refer infotainment manual. Refer link - https://cars.tatamotors.com 181  INTERIOR FEATURES Sunroof Closure on Auto Detection of Rain/vehicle Lock For User Convenience / Protection of ve- hicle,

Closure on Auto Detection of Rain/vehicle Lock For User Convenience / Protection of ve- hicle, sunroof will automatically close under following conditions: + Rain Detection: When sunroof is open and rain is detected (based on Wiper speed is slow/high upon raining), then Sunroof will close automatically + Vehicle Locking: The sun roof will close automatically when ignition is off and vehicle is locked from out through driver door manual key or by remote key. L) NOTE Combi Switch should be in auto mode to close sunroof with rain sensor. 182 Automatic Reversal / Anti-pinch Func- tion If the sunroof senses any obstacle while it is closing then it will reverse its direction and opens the sunroof so that trapped ob- ject will get released easily. The auto re- verse function may not work if very thin or soft object is caught between the sunroof assembly. Anti-Pinch/ Automatic reversal is a safety feature however to override it and operate sunroof manually, press sun- roof close switch within

feature however to override it and operate sunroof manually, press sun- roof close switch within 10 seconds of auto-reversal completion and hold it till sunroof is fully closed. [ARNING Never try pinching of any part of your body intentionally to activate the Auto- matic reversal function. The Automatic reversal function may not work if something gets stuck just be- fore the sunroof fully closes. Warning For Sunroof Even though the sunroof can be operated when the ignition key is in the ON position (the vehicle is not running), operating the sunroof repeatedly with the vehicle turned off will run down the battery. Operate the sunroof while the vehicle is running When a desired sunroof operation is com- pleted, release the switch. If you keep pressing the switch, it could cause a mal- function. Especially in winter, never oper- ate the sunroof if moving areas are iced. Wait until the areas are de-iced. Make sure head, hands, arms or any other body parts or objects are out of the way

are de-iced. Make sure head, hands, arms or any other body parts or objects are out of the way before operating the sunroof. Body parts or objects may get pinched causing in-  juries or vehicle damage. Never deliberately use your body parts to test the automatic reversal function. The sunroof glass may reverse direction, but there is a risk of injury. Dust accumulated between the sun-roof and roof panel can make noise or cause any damage. Open the sunroof and re- move dust regularly using a clean cloth. Do not sit on the top of the sunroof. It may cause injury or vehicle damage. Do not allow passengers to lean out of an open sunroof whilst the vehicle is in mo- tion. Injuries may occur from objects such as tree branches. Safety of the vehicle occupants must be observed at all times. Do not allow limbs to be placed in the moving path of the sun- roof at any time, injury may occur. ZX WARNING High Pressure wash Jet Flow should not be directed on Sunroof sealing area around periphery of

High Pressure wash Jet Flow should not be directed on Sunroof sealing area around periphery of glass. Doing so many lead to water leakage inside cabin. Initializing The Power Sunroof In the event of a power failure or while re- placing the dead fuse or battery discon- nection when the sunroof is in motion, then sunroof will require initialization when the power is restored. Initializing Procedure 1. Turn ON the ignition. 2. Close the sunroof fully by pressing ‘sunroof close switch’ and keep the switch pressed for 1-2 seconds after the roof is fully closed, till clicking sound comes from Sunroof. 3. The Initializing command is complete, Check if the Express open/close fea- tures are working. INTERIOR FEATURES I-call And E-call Switch 1. I-Call Switch: |-Call will connect you to TATA MOTORS Roadside assistance for Towing. Not for ambulance service. 2. Red LED Indication: Red LED indi- cates the fault or failure in I-Call/E-Call functionality. 3. Green LED Indication: Green LED in-

cates the fault or failure in I-Call/E-Call functionality. 3. Green LED Indication: Green LED in- dicates the status of ongoing I-Call or E-Call. 4. E-Call Switch (Emergency Call or SOS Switch): E-Call will connect you to towing and ambulance services. 183  INTERIOR FEATURES STEERING MOUNTED CONTROLS down. It will function in the following @ NOTE *Subject to mobile network, connectivity and location mentioned. (if equipped) Steering Mounted Controls (LHS) Press above switch to increase or de- crease volume of music system / radio. 2. Seek /preset < If the Seek/Preset switch is pressed up or 184 modes. Radio Mode - It will function as the preset station up/down button. Media Mode - It will function as the TRACK UP/DOWN button. 3. Phone Receive Press above switch to accept Y incoming call when a cell phone jamal is connected via Bluetooth. 4. Phone Reject Press the switch to reject or hang up a phone call. Press above switch to select the required source in the info- tainment system

hang up a phone call. Press above switch to select the required source in the info- tainment system i.e. USB, AM, FM and Bluetooth. @ NOTE For more information, refer infotainment manual. Refer link - https://cars.tatamotors.com/  6. Push To Talk ° For Voice Recognition, press a) this switch. The system mutes/ pauses the currently played audio and you will hear a beep sound to indicate the activation of the voice recog- nition feature. The system displays the voice recognition screen on Infotainment to indicate activation of the feature. Steering Mounted Controls (RHS) 1. Page Up/down If cluster screen is selected, with Up/Down switch you can access the submenu screens of a main menu. 2. SET+/ SET- Accelerate the vehicle to desired speed, Press the SET + to select the required cruise speed. When the cruise control is set, you can increase or decrease the speed by pushing SET+/ SET- buttons re- spectively. INTERIOR FEATURES . Pagination Press the switch to enter in to cluster screen.

re- spectively. INTERIOR FEATURES . Pagination Press the switch to enter in to cluster screen. 4. Cruise ON/OFF Press the switch to turn ON/OFF the cruise function. 5. Selection (OK) Push the OK button to access/select the submenu screens of a main menu item. 6. RES / CAN To resume a previously set speed, push the RES button and release. This switch is also used to cancel /deactivate (CAN) cruise control system without erasing the set speed from memory. 7. View (if equipped) Press the view button to switch between the dials & driver information display of in- strument cluster. 185  INTERIOR FEATURES Paddle Shifter (if equipped) The Paddle shifters allow drivers to shift gear while holding the steering wheel without having to move your hand to the gear lever, making the change safer and quicker. These are mounted behind the steering wheel. Paddle shifters are typically used in drive (D) mode. The paddles are labeled with +/- sign, indicating whether to upshift or down- shift the gear.

mode. The paddles are labeled with +/- sign, indicating whether to upshift or down- shift the gear. When driver pulls the right paddle (+), 186 he transmission will shift up to a higher gear based on vehicle speed and torque demand. When the driver pulls the left paddle (-), the transmis- sion will shift down to a lower gear. The system then changes from automatic shift mode to manual shift mode. Gear shift lever at drive position and if he user tries to press paddle shifter “+” or “-“ and if the required vehicle speed and torque demand is not met then, Transmission warning shift denied message displayed on cluster to warn he user. The manual shift mode also changes back to automatic shift mode in one of he following situations: + When the accelerator pedal is gen- tly pressed while driving + When the vehicle speed decrease below specified limit + The user has moved the mono sta- ble shifter to “D” positon again to enter into Auto mode. INFOTAINMENT SYSTEM DISPLAY Option | Master

shifter to “D” positon again to enter into Auto mode. INFOTAINMENT SYSTEM DISPLAY Option | Master /force Reset Process If your infotainment system touch screen becomes unresponsive or shows some unusual behavior, then you can restart it to potentially resolve the issue. Follow some basic steps given below and you can restart the system. To restart the infotainment system  INTERIOR FEATURES mie GF equipped) + It is preferable to do one Ignition OFF to ON cycle after Master/Force reset to synchronize vehicle settings with the TATA Infotainment System. + If the reboot does not work or mas- ter/force resets are required on a weekly or daily basis, vehicle shall be taken to dealership. There, the dealer can update your firmware or inspect the system for hard-ware . Park the vehicle. problem. A + Force/Master reset keeps the stored 2. Hold the Steering wheel Mute button data, such as call history text mes- Mic is provided on the roof near the roof (long press) KEM for more than 10 7 : an

text mes- Mic is provided on the roof near the roof (long press) KEM for more than 10 7 : an lam sage information, and previously p. secs and then release the button as soon as the display goes blank. paired phones as itis. 3. The step above will trigger the infotain- ment system restart procedure. Wait until the system restarts. 4. When you hold the Steering wheel Mute button [KEM for more than 15 sec, system aborts restart process and display turns ON. 187  INTERIOR FEATURES SPEAKERS & TWEETER equipped) 188 (if Speakers and Tweeters are available in models with infotainment system. Provi- sions are given for music system and speakers on versions without infotainment system. USB Port(if equipped) Front USB A + C Charger A type USB port is used to connect your portable digital music players, pen drives etc. for playing music tracks through the vehicle’s music system. C type USB port is used for fast charging of mobiles which are having C type inter- face.  Rear USB A + C Charger Atype

for fast charging of mobiles which are having C type inter- face.  Rear USB A + C Charger Atype USB port is used to charge mobiles which are having A type interface. C type USB port is used for fast charging of mobiles which are having C type inter- face. POWER SOCKET On Center Console INTERIOR FEATURES In Luggage Compartment The power socket will work when the igni- tion switch is in the “ACC” or “ON” position. This socket can be used to provide 12V (10A) power for electrical accessories. + Use of unapproved electrical acces- sories can cause damage to your vehi- cle’s electrical system. + Make sure that any electrical acces- sories you use are designed to plug into this type of socket and rating. 189  INTERIOR FEATURES ANTENNA Option | Shark FIN antenna is provided on the roof at rear end. 190 Option Il CT a y Antenna is located on the roof. Turn the antenna anticlockwise to remove it from he vehicle, if required. LAMPS Roof Lamp Interior roof lighting lamp is provided on the roof

from he vehicle, if required. LAMPS Roof Lamp Interior roof lighting lamp is provided on the roof with inbuilt switch. The switch has three positions: ON The lamp will turn ‘ON’ as long BRRyIgN as the switch is in this position. cx DOOR In this position the lamp turns to ‘ON’ when either of the doors are opened. When the last door is closed,  INTERIOR FEATURES HEAD LAMP AND TAIL LAMP Tail Lamp the lamp will turn ‘OFF’ with dimming. This helps settling in the seat and inserting the key in the ignition switch. When the key is turned to the ‘IGN’ position, the lamp goes ‘OFF’ immediately. OFF n this position, the lamp will re- main ‘OFF’. Boot Lamp Head Lamp Position Lamp Turn Indicator Tail/stop Lamp Reverse Lamp 1. Turn Indicator / DRL / PO 2. Head lamp (High / Low beam) 3. Fog lamp Reflex Reflector High Mounted Stop Lamp QOaPPton a 191  INTERIOR FEATURES ROOF GRAB HANDLE Grab handles are installed on the roof for all seats except for the driver's seat. These help the passengers to

are installed on the roof for all seats except for the driver's seat. These help the passengers to position them- selves comfortably during the journey. 192 VEHICLE TELEMATICS Car is equipped with iRA - Connected car Technology which offers a host of features to the users through the “iRA - Connected car” Mobile Application (APP). The Vehicle is equipped with an Electronic Control unit which monitors & records the data from various vehicle systems like Engine, Transmission, Brake, Battery & other elec- trical systems. This data is then processed & used for providing the connected Car features. (Refer the app tour section of the mobile app.) The Connected Car module records the following information: Vehicle Telematics This includes the periodic transmission of data from other vehicle ECUs & Electronic systems like EMS, ABS, Air Bag, BMS, BCM etc. along with the geographi- cal location of the vehicle. Vehicle driving behavior This includes the location, speed, acceler- ation, trip

of the vehicle. Vehicle driving behavior This includes the location, speed, acceler- ation, trip details, charging etc. Event based recording This includes data generated during spe- cific events like vehicle collision, intrusion, un-authorized entry etc. Connected data is used by Tata Motors Passenger Vehicle Limited for various pur- poses, including, but not limited to, provid- ing connected car features through mobile APP. + Evaluation of Vehicle performance. + Research & improvement of current & future vehicle designs. + Troubleshooting & diagnostics of the vehicle. TATA MOTORS does not disclose the data recorded from your vehicle to any third party except: + After obtaining a written consent from the Car Owner. + Upon request from Law enforcing agencies and regulatory bodies. + Used for research purpose without the Personal _ Verifiable information (anonymized). + Used as defence of TATA MOTORS in a Lawsuit.  REMOTE ENGINE START/STOP (RESS) (If equipped) conan y * 4 iz coz The

of TATA MOTORS in a Lawsuit.  REMOTE ENGINE START/STOP (RESS) (If equipped) conan y * 4 iz coz The remote engine start stop feature im- proves the user experience and comfort by providing the remote engine start stop rom the mobile app. Using this feature, user can remotely ac- cess the vehicle through connected car application (IRA) and start the pre condi- tioning (engine and AC ON/OFF). Operating Conditions 1. In the ignition OFF condition user can start the vehicle remotely using mobile application. 2. In the mobile app, user need to set timer value (set timer) for that specific time vehicle is turned ON. 3. Based on the user’s set timer value ve- hicle engine will be on and based on set temperature FATC will start the AC in auto mode with the requested tem- perature. 4. Remote engine start command turns ON engine and remote AC. 5. User can also send remote stop com- mand through app in order to kill set timer and turn OFF engine. Failure Conditions / Time Killer Remote based

app in order to kill set timer and turn OFF engine. Failure Conditions / Time Killer Remote based start stop will be failed if: + The vehicle is in ignition ON state. + Any of the door/bonnet/tailgate is left opened. + The battery voltage of the vehicle is below Threshold value. + The steering of the vehicle is in un- locked state. + The vehicle speed is NOT zero and the low fuel level indication is ON. + The accelerator/clutch brake pedal is already ENGAGED. * Vehicle is NOT in neutral gear. INTERIOR FEATURES + Hand Brake is not fully engaged or electronic park brake not engaged. Do’s And Don’ts Do’s + All doors should be locked including tailgate and bonnet. + Low fuel level indication should be in OFF state. + No DTC’S should be present in EMS ECU. + Park brake should be fully engaged and gear position should be in neutral state. + Vehicle should be at rest position. Don’ts + Don’t trigger command immediately after vehicle lock wait for 15 sec. + Don’t park vehicle on higher slope

command immediately after vehicle lock wait for 15 sec. + Don’t park vehicle on higher slope plane this may cause RESS Fail. + Don’t trigger command back to back provide some delay. + Don’t trigger command immediately if command fails in previous cycle. 193  INTERIOR FEATURES REMOTE AC CONTROL (RAC) (If equipped) The remote AC feature improves the user experience and comfort by providing the remote climate control from the mobile App. Using this feature, the user can remotely access the vehicle using the connected car smartphone app and start the pre-con- ditioning (AC on/off) before reaching the vehicle. Operating Conditions 1. In the Ignition OFF condition user can turn ON the AC from outside the vehi- cle using mobile App. 2. Inthe mobile App user need to provide the set timer value (Set Timer) and set temperature value (set temp) before 194 giving the remote AC request. 3. Based on the user’s set temperature FATC will start the climate control in auto mode with the requested

on the user’s set temperature FATC will start the climate control in auto mode with the requested temper- ature. Once the engine is ON remotely. Failure Conditions / Time Killer * — Ignition/Engine is ON manually before sending the command through mobile App. + Acceleration/Brake/Clutch/Gear Tran- sition is detected without a valid key. + Low/High battery voltage. * Comfort level is reached in the vehicle cabin based on the comfort state sig- nal description. * AC is ON before sending the com- mand through mobile App. + EPB is disengaged during RAC oper- ation without a valid key. ¢ Burglar alarm ARM state. Features operating through mobile app (RESS & Remote AC control) effective- ness is dependent on mobile network availability.  WIRELESS POWER CHARGING (if equipped) WPC System Description Wireless Power Charging (is a conven- ience feature to charge the smart mobile phone using wireless charging technology, without a need to plugin wire in the device. The WPC system is powered with

charging technology, without a need to plugin wire in the device. The WPC system is powered with vehicle battery and the wireless power charging function is enabled with Ignition ON. Qi Compatible Term Qi 1.1.4: refers to certified product with the capability to transmit power of up to 15 W and detect metal and other impurities to prevent heating. NOTE The WPC would support only those smart phones which are Qi compatible. Please refer to the smart phone manual or connect to smart phone manufac- turer to check whether your smart phone supports Qi function. Location of Wireless Charger Location: The location of the WPC in ve- hicle is in the Centre console area as below. INTERIOR FEATURES Function of Each Component of WPC ¢ Wireless Power Charging (WPC) ECU: Generates power up to 15W and transfer power wirelessly by magnetic induction. ¢ Anti-skid Mat: Holds the position of smart phone placed on it against any jerk and acts a charging contact sur- face for the smart phone. ¢ Cooling

placed on it against any jerk and acts a charging contact sur- face for the smart phone. ¢ Cooling FAN: It is provided to keep charging surface temperature within ambient temperature range. ¢ FAN Cover: It has ducts to direct FAN air on WPC ECU surface. ¢ Infotainment unit: It is status display unit to display the status of wireless power charger. Status symbol and text display is displayed on Infotainment unit. Functions of WPC System A. Charging function: Charge smart phone Following all the conditions are applicable in this feature to function correctly 195  INTERIOR FEATURES + — Ignition ON (Engine OFF) + Engine ON + Smart phone placed in correct orienta- tion on the antiskid mat as below WPC system detects the presence of phone and starts charging as per the Qi standard protocol. The charging status is updated and displayed on the head unit. B. Charging Status display function: 1. WPC system in standby mode - WPC system is waiting for phone or phone is not getting detected by the

system in standby mode - WPC system is waiting for phone or phone is not getting detected by the WPC system etc. Customer is advised to 196 check the Qi compatibility/phone align- ment/any foreign object between the phone and mat. . Smart phone charging ON- Phone is charging Metal object on the antiskid mat - Cus- tomer is advised to check any metal object on antiskid mat, if found, it is to be removed. . Smart phone battery is full/Charging completed . WPC ECU error (“Error” condition indi- cates abnormal operating conditions internal system fault or fan stuck/jam) - Customer should realign the phone to centre to initiate charging. if problem is not resolved you are advised to visit the TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre. Metal Object Detected -All Time Display A Place phone properly and r object if any on cl Conditions to Charge Phone Properly 1. Keep the charging surface clear of any metal objects (coins, credit cards, smart cards, keys etc.) Place the smart phone on the

of any metal objects (coins, credit cards, smart cards, keys etc.) Place the smart phone on the charging area marked for positioning the phone, for best results place the smart phone at the center of the charging pad.  3. Charge the smartphone without its cover or not a thick cover otherwise it would halt the wireless charging 4. Ensure that the phone is placed with display facing upwards and charging area touching the charging pad sur- face. 5. Turn ON the ignition to start the charg- ing. INFORMATION + The wireless charging function is sup- ported to charge smart phones which are Qi compatible. Certain features may not function as not supported by the smart phone manufacturer and not a malfunction of the wireless charging. + Wireless charging stops with Ignition OFF. + Wireless charging stops when the smart phone is not completely in touch with the charging pad surface or not positioned correctly on charging pad Do’s and Don’ts WARNING 1. If any metal object such as coin is lo-

correctly on charging pad Do’s and Don’ts WARNING 1. If any metal object such as coin is lo- cated between wireless charging pad and phone back, the charging may get disrupted. Also, metal object may heat up. Do’s: 1. Please ensure that the phone is com- patible to the charging standard “Qi”. 2. \f any metal object found on charging pad remove it immediately. 3. In case of water/Liquid spillage on charging pad, dry out the pad surface area properly & clean the ECU surface area by removing Anti-skid mat. Do not charge the smart phone until surface is completely dry. 4. The smart phone may become hot while getting charged. Please be cau- tious about the high temperature while picking up the smartphone from the charging pad. INTERIOR FEATURES 5. Wireless charger works on principle of magnetic induction, i.e. it converts electrical energy into magnetic energy to transfer energy from charging pad to phone. Please maintain safe distance from the charger most of the time as it may cause

pad to phone. Please maintain safe distance from the charger most of the time as it may cause irritation to sensory organs or active implants if implemented in the body. Please consult medical specialist in case implant organ in the body of the user 6. Always turn ON the engine while using this feature to avoid vehicle battery drain issue. 7. Always keep charging pad clean and dust free. 8. Vehicle AC may turn ON during wire- less mobile charging for efficient use of this feature. Don’ts: 1. Do not use metal smart phone covers as it would halt the wireless charging function. The wireless charging may not function properly when there is a heavy & thick accessory cover on the smart phone. 197  INTERIOR FEATURES 2. Do not place smart phone up-side down on charging pad or do not miss aligned mobile phone on charging pad in such case smartphone charging will not happen. 3. Do not keep any metal objects like coins, smart keys, electronic cards e.g. credit card, debit card, smartcard from

metal objects like coins, smart keys, electronic cards e.g. credit card, debit card, smartcard from the charging pad as it may disrupt the charging process and/or may damage the card. 4. Do not keep any liquid (e.g. water, cold drink, and sanitizer), flammable object on antiskid mat. 5. Do not cover the wireless charger with a cloth or other object while charging. It may heat up the device and reduce the charging efficiency. 6. Donot disassemble, modify or remove the wireless charger & do not apply force or impact to the wireless. Information 1. Small noise may be heard when a smart phone which does not support wireless charging or any foreign object is placed on the charging pad. This 198 small sound is due to the vehicle dis- cerning compatibility of the object placed on the charging pad. It does not affect the vehicle performance or the smartphone in any way. For certain cellular phones with their own protection, the wireless charging speed may decrease and the wireless changing

with their own protection, the wireless charging speed may decrease and the wireless changing may stop. . When the interior temperature of the wireless charger rises above a set temperature, the wireless charging will cease to charging function. After the in- terior temperature drops below set threshold, the wireless charging func- tion will resume. . When the mobile phone temperature rises above a set cut off threshold, the wireless charging will cease to charg- ing function due to mobile phone stops demand power from wireless charger. After the mobile phone temperature drops below threshold, the wireless charging function will resume. Mobile temperature cut off threshold is much lower than WPC temperature cut off threshold. 5. When charging certain smart phones, the charging full message on head uni may not display when the smart phone is fully charged. It depends on smar phone manufacturer. 6. Smartphone of some manufacturers may display messages on weak cur- rent. This is due to

6. Smartphone of some manufacturers may display messages on weak cur- rent. This is due to particular charac- teristic of smartphone and does no imply a malfunction on wireless charger. Smaller smartphone users (ex. IPhone) may face intermitten charging issues due to its smaller size. (To avoid this, place the smartphone ai center of the charging pad). Small mo- bile phones may not be able to charge in every position on charging pad. 7. The wireless charger may not operate correctly when the vehicle is near a TV tower, electric power plant, gas station, large display, airport, or other facility that generates strong radio waves or electrical noise. Smart Phone Charging ON Mode When the smart phone is placed correctly  and the conditions are favorable to per- form the function of wireless charging, the infotainment system shows following mes- sages. After Popup, The charging symbol stays ON until the phone is fully charged. Charging Mode ON - All Time Display Metal Object Detection

ON until the phone is fully charged. Charging Mode ON - All Time Display Metal Object Detection Mode The charging gets interrupted/stopped due to metal object placed on the charging pad. The infotainment head unit displays following message. Check if there are any foreign objects between the smart phone and the charging pad, please clean if so. Smartphone shall be lifted for removing foreign objects and place it back on charg- ing pad. Metal Objects INTERIOR FEATURES * Delay in restarting of mobile charg- ing will be observed if foreign ob- jects are removed without lifting smart phone. + After removing the foreign objects, if smart phone do not resume charg- ing immediately lift the phone and place on charging pad to start the charging. ¢ In case, Phone overheat, remove and keep it after sometime. Smart Phone Battery is Full/ Charg- ing Completed The smart phone fully charged status is in- dicated on the infotainment display screen with following message. This Indication depends on

in- dicated on the infotainment display screen with following message. This Indication depends on phone profile whether it com- municate the battery full charge status to WPC System. 199  INTERIOR FEATURES Nireless Charging = Battery Fully Charged we ha 126 aM ‘#nsTO 208% Home Charging Complete Indication - All Time Display WPC System Error Mode The error in the WPCF wireless power charger with FAN, system may cause the error message to get displayed on the in- fotainment screen. Some of errors that can occur while charg- ing which halt/interrupt charging can be covered with this indication are: + WPCF internal fault which lead to per- manent failure in charger functionality 200 + WPC Fan Stuck / Jam is detected + Coil Failure + High Temperature of WPC device (70 Degree C) + Memory failure System Error Mode- Popup @ NOTE If error message is pop up on head unit then avoid charging the smart phone and visit the nearby service station.  STOWAGE AREA STORAGE COMPARTMENT 1. Glove box 4.

smart phone and visit the nearby service station.  STOWAGE AREA STORAGE COMPARTMENT 1. Glove box 4. Utility pockets on rear doors 7. Luggage Compartment 2. Driver side coin box 5. Center console below arm rest 3. Utility pockets on front doors 6. Foldable arm rest/ Cup holder 201  STOWAGE AREA GLOVE BOX Opening And Closing To open- Press the knob and open the glove box flap. To close - Lift glove box flap upward until it engages. Glove Box Illumination The glove box lamp illuminates when the glove box flap is opened. 202 5. Cup holder NOTE . 6. Receipts etc. Make sure that glove box flap is closed while driving. Cooling Facility (if equipped) Stowage Details On selected models glove box is provided with a cooling facility. It cools the glove box only when the front A/C is ON. Shut OFF the vent by rotating the knob, whenever cooling is not required. Following items can be stored in glove box. 1. Owner’s manual and other vehicle document 2. Chiller glow box 3. Pen holder 4. Visiting

box. 1. Owner’s manual and other vehicle document 2. Chiller glow box 3. Pen holder 4. Visiting card  DRIVER SIDE COIN BOX Stowage is provided on RH side of steer- ing wheel for Coin, mobile and wallet. STOWAGE AREA UTILITY POCKETS on REAR DOORS UTILITY POCKETS on FRONT DOORS Utility pockets are provided on front doors and it can be used to keep following items. Utility pockets are available on rear doors and it can be used to keep following items. 1. Suitable water bottle 2. Magazine / paper / books 1. Suitable water bottle 2. Magazine / paper / books 3. Umbrella @ NOTE Remove the water from umbrella and fold it properly before storing it in um- brella holder. 203  STOWAGE AREA CENTER CONSOLE Option | Stowage below arm rest Stowage compartment is provided below the foldable arm rest for keeping cell phones, iPod’s, chargers etc. 204 Tambour door Tambour door is provided on center con- sole. To access Tambour door, lift arm rest (1). Slide the shutter (2) to open and close the stowage

To access Tambour door, lift arm rest (1). Slide the shutter (2) to open and close the stowage area. Option Il Following items can be stored in Center console. 1. Pen & Coin holder 2. Cup holder  FOLDABLE equipped) ARM REST (if A foldable arm rest has been provided in the rear seat. It also has two-cup holders, which can be accessed by opening the cover. When not required, fold the armrest back into the seat. NOTE Remove all items and cups before fold- ing the cup holders. Use cups, contain- ers, bottles of right size and which have lids. The content could otherwise spill. LUGGAGE COMPARTMENT Store the luggage in luggage compart- ment. You can keep suitcase, bags, etc. A\ WARNING + Distribute the items of luggage as evenly as possible. + Position heavy loads towards rear seat and low down in the trunk as possible. * Do not allow occupants to travel in the luggage compartment. STOWAGE AREA + Do not place anything on luggage cover as it could obstruct driver’s rear view. Also in case of

+ Do not place anything on luggage cover as it could obstruct driver’s rear view. Also in case of an acci- dent or sudden braking, it could cause an injury to occupants. Storage Below Luggage Carpet Store the suitable luggage below the lug- gage carpet in luggage compartment. It can be used to keep small items. TATA Motors does not recommend use of any floor mats below driver foot, from occupant safety point of view. If floor mats are used by end user, for different reasons, they need to be secured in place with the provided floor carpet clips. This is recommended, as in nor- mal driving conditions, floor mats may slip forward and interfere with pedals. 205  STOWAGE AREA HOOKS (if equipped) Coat Hook Coat hangers are provided for rear pas- senger on both grab handles. + The coat hook is not designed to carry heavy objects or luggage items. * Do not hang hard, sharp-edged or fragile objects on the coat hook. 206 Hook For Purse Holder Hooks for holding purse are provided on both B

objects on the coat hook. 206 Hook For Purse Holder Hooks for holding purse are provided on both B pillar. Collapsible Hook Collapsible hook is provided for hanging small carry bags etc. Do not use these hooks for securing luggage like using nets etc. in the boot.  STOWAGE AREA Carrier Hook In Luggage Compart- LUGGAGE COMPARTMENT ~ ROOF RAIL ment COVER Aesthetic Roof Rail Carrier hook is provided for hanging small carry bags etc. Load up to 3 kg is permis- sible. Luggage cover is designed only for hiding the luggage compartment. Do not apply load or mount roof rack on roof rails. @ NOTE @ NOTE Do not use these hooks for securing Do not place anything on luggage cover luggage like using nets etc. as it could obstruct driver’s rear view. Also in case of an accident or sudden braking, it may cause an injury to the occupants. 207  208  EMERGENCY EQUIPMENT You should be familiar with the location of the emergency equipment provided in the vehicle and how to use it. Do a check of this

location of the emergency equipment provided in the vehicle and how to use it. Do a check of this equipment periodically and make sure that they are in proper working condition and stowed at their lo- cations. First Aid Kit The first aid kit is kept inside the glove box compartment. The kit contains items that can be used in case of minor injuries only. @ NOTE Examine contents of the first aid kit pe- riodically and replenish consumed or expired items. Tool Kit, Tow Hook, Jack And Spare Wheel Following parts are provided in the Bag as a Toolkit and kept in the Spare wheel. Tow hook + Wheel Spanner + Jack Handle + Jack @ NOTE The jack should be used only to change wheels. It is important to read the in- structions in this section before attempt- ing to use the jack. Advance Warning Triangle An advance warning triangle is kept in the EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN luggage compartment beside spare wheel. Use advance warning triangle to warn the approaching traffic in case of vehicle break-down

wheel. Use advance warning triangle to warn the approaching traffic in case of vehicle break-down or during emergency, where your vehicle could become a potential traf- fic hazard. When you press the hazard warning switch, all turn signal lamps will start to blink. Keep the warning triangle at an ap- proximate distance of 50-150 m behind your vehicle in the same lane of traffic. The reflecting side of the triangle should face he oncoming traffic and it should be free rom any obstacles. Remove the advance 209  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN warning triangle carefully from the bag and SPARE WHEEL REMOVAL assemble. Refer instructions givenonthe PROCESS bag. * To access the spare wheel, lift the car- @ NOTE pet up. After using the warning triangle tie it After lifting, hold the carpet to access firmly and keep it inside the bag to avoid the spare wheel. rattling noise. + Remove the Toolkit bag. * To remove the spare wheel, unscrew and remove the retaining bolt. 210 “80 km/h” or “50 mph’ is the

To remove the spare wheel, unscrew and remove the retaining bolt. 210 “80 km/h” or “50 mph’ is the maxi- mum speed you are permitted to drive with this tyre. Never drive faster than 80 km/h (50mph). Do not accelerate quickly, brake suddenly or drive at high speed through bends. After fitting the temporary spare wheel, the tyre pressure must be checked as soon as possible.  + Recommended tyre pressure is 32psi (2.2 bar) for temporary spare wheel. + Snow chains cannot be used on the temporary spare wheel. + Never use more than one temporary spare wheel. + Never use a temporary spare tyre if it is damaged or worn down to the tread wear indicators. + The ground clearance of your vehi- cle may be reduced. Take care when parking next to curb. + The temporary spare should not be installed on the front axle if the ve- hicle must be driven in snow. * Do not tow whilst the temporary spare wheel is installed. @ NOTE Your vehicle may exhibit some un-usual driving characteristics when fitted with

installed. @ NOTE Your vehicle may exhibit some un-usual driving characteristics when fitted with temporary spare wheel IN CASE of FLAT TYRE + Reduce vehicle speed gradually, Avoid sudden steering movement or braking. + Pay attention to the traffic conditions as you do so. * Switch on the hazard warning lamps. + Stop the vehicle on solid, non-slippery and level ground, as far away as pos- sible from traffic. * Use the Jack on level, hard ground. Avoid changing the wheel on uphill and downhill slopes. Chocks the wheels, if the deflated wheel needs to be changed on slope / ghat area. + If possible, bring the front wheels into the straight-ahead position. * Secure the vehicle against rolling away. + Set the parking brake firmly and shift in to “R” (Reverse) gear on level ground and while vehicle is in downhill position. + When the vehicle is in uphill position, shift the gear in first gear. EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN + Switch off the engine. * Keep advance warning triangle at a suitable

EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN + Switch off the engine. * Keep advance warning triangle at a suitable distance behind the vehicle as an indication of breakdown. * Close all the doors. AX WARNING If you drive with a flat tyre, there is a risk of the following hazards: + A flat tyre affects the ability to steer or brake the vehicle. * You could lose control of the vehi- cle. * Continued driving with a flat tyre will permanently damage the tyre and cause excessive heat buildup and possibly a fire. There is a risk of an accident. Changing Flat Tyre Loosen the nuts (as indicated) on the wheel in diagonal sequence. Do not un- screw the nuts completely before raising the vehicle using the jack. 211  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN Wheel Nut Removal 212 The jack is designed only to raise and hold the vehicle for a short time while a wheel is being changed. It is not suited for performing mainte- nance work under the vehicle. Use the jack on level, hard ground. Avoid changing the wheel on uphill and downhill

the vehicle. Use the jack on level, hard ground. Avoid changing the wheel on uphill and downhill slopes. Chock the wheels, if the deflated wheel needs to be changed on slope / ghat area. Before raising the vehicle, secure it from rolling away by applying the parking brake. Do not use wooden blocks or similar objects as a jack underlay. Do not place your hands and feet or lie under the raised vehicle when it is supported by a jack. Do not run the engine when the ve- hicle is supported by the jack and never allow passengers to remain in the vehicle. + Do not open or close a door or the tailgate when the vehicle is raised. Assemble the Jack handle and wheel spanner (as shown in fig.) Position the jack vertically and raise it by turning the jack handle clockwise until the jack sits completely on the specified point and the base of the jack lies evenly on the ground. The jacking points iy] are indicated on sill cover of the vehicle (Refer jacking point location).  Jack Up Point Location On

indicated on sill cover of the vehicle (Refer jacking point location).  Jack Up Point Location On Vehicle If you do not position the jack correctly at the appropriate jacking point of the vehicle, the jack could tip over with the vehicle raised. There is a risk of injury. Also jack can be damaged. Jack Lifting Continue to raise the jack slowly and smoothly until the tyre clears the ground. Do not raise the vehicle more than neces- sary. EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN Remove wheel nuts with the help of wheel spanner and take out flat tyre. @ NOTE Do not place wheel nuts in sand or ona dirty surface. Do not apply oil or grease on it. Roll the spare wheel into position and align the holes in the wheel studs. Tighten each nut by hand until the wheel is securely seated on the hub. Lower the jack completely then tighten the wheel nuts diagonally in opposite se- quence one by one using wheel spanner. Press fit the wheel back (if equipped). Restore all the tools and jack at their re- spective

Press fit the wheel back (if equipped). Restore all the tools and jack at their re- spective locations. Place the flat tyre at spare wheel location cover 213  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN * Do a check and correct the tyre pressure and wheel nuts tightness of the changed wheel at nearest au- thorised service station. Get the flat tyre repaired at the earliest + Do not jack the vehicle under rear axle. 214 JUMP STARTING YOUR CAR Use only a battery of same rating & capac- ity to jump start your vehicle. Position the booster battery close to your vehicle so that the jump leads will reach both batter- ies. When using a battery of another vehicle, do not let the vehicles touch. Apply the parking brake firmly and keep the gearshift lever in neutral. Turn off all vehicle accessories, except those necessary for safety like hazard warning lamps. If your vehicle is equipped with Battery sensor, then do not connect your jump start cable lead directly on the Sensor sur- face. Connect only on the

do not connect your jump start cable lead directly on the Sensor sur- face. Connect only on the negative cable surface as shown on the image. After jump start event, IAC function will be restored only when the Vehicle is parked in idle for 3-4 Hours. (For Diesel & Petrol) Make jump lead connections as follows: * Connect one end of the first jump lead to the positive (+) terminal of the dis- charged battery. * Connect the other end to the positive (+) terminal of the booster battery. * Connect one end of the second jump lead to the negative (—) terminal of the booster battery. + Make the final connection (other end of the negative terminal) to an unpainted, heavy metal part (i.e. engine mounting  stud/nut) of the vehicle of discharged battery. — the cable in numerical order & disconnect in reverse order. Discharge Battery Unpainted Metal (Engine) part of vehicle with discharged battery Start the engine of the vehicle with the discharged battery. Before disconnecting the jumper ca-

Start the engine of the vehicle with the discharged battery. Before disconnecting the jumper ca- bles, let the engine run for several min- utes. If the booster battery you are using is fitted to another vehicle, start the en- gine of the vehicle with the booster bat- tery. Run the engine at moderate speed. Remove the jump leads in the exact reverse order in which you connected them. @ NOTE Do not disconnect the discharged bat- tery from the vehicle. AX WARNING + Do not connect the jump lead di- rectly to the negative (—) terminal of the discharged battery. This may lead to an explosion. * Do not allow battery electrolyte to come in contact with eyes, skin, fab- rics or painted surfaces. The fluid contains acid which can cause in- jury and severe damage. Wear pro- tective apparel. Do not inhale any battery gases. Keep children away from batteries. In case if battery acid comes in contact with the skin, wash it off immediately with water and seek medical attention. + During charging and

with the skin, wash it off immediately with water and seek medical attention. + During charging and jump-starting, explosive gases can escape from EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN the battery. There is a risk of an ex- plosion. Particularly avoid fire, open flames, creating sparks and smok- ing. Make sure that there is suffi- cient ventilation while charging and jump-starting. Do not lean over the battery. Make sure that the positive terminal of a connected battery does not come into contact with vehicle parts. Never place metal objects or tools on a battery. It is important that you observe the described order of the battery termi- nals when connecting and discon- necting a battery. If you are in doubt, seek assistance from qualified spe- cialist workshop. Do not connect or disconnect the battery terminals while the engine is running. 215  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN Do’s And Dont’s Do’s + Use only authorized Battery sensor. + Use only authorized Battery + Always disconnect the Battery sensor

authorized Battery sensor. + Use only authorized Battery + Always disconnect the Battery sensor output for any service on vehicle Don’t Do not remove the Battery sensor if it is not necessary. + Do not mallet / hammer the Battery sensor to fix on Battery Pole. + Do not place the Battery sensor on Positive Pole. + Donot remove the Battery Sensor con- nector. 216 TOWING Guidelines (Do’s & Don’ts) When towing a break down vehicle, cer- tain precautions and procedures must be taken to prevent damage to the vehicle and/or components. Failure to use stan- dard towing precautionary measures when lifting or towing a break down vehicle could result in an unsafe operating condition. To correctly tow and prevent accidental damage to your vehicle, take help of a TATA MOTORS authorized dealer or a commercial tow-truck service. @ NOTE Make sure that the parking brake is re- leased; vehicle is in neutral and steering wheel is unlocked. The power steering functions only when vehicle is running.

neutral and steering wheel is unlocked. The power steering functions only when vehicle is running. Hence, during towing the steering ef- forts will be more. A\ WARNING + Do not get under your vehicle after it has been lifted by a tow truck. For towing a vehicle, the best way is to use a wrecker. Alternatively use a rigid tow bar. Switch ‘ON’ the hazard warning in- dicators of both the vehicles to warn other road users. Limit the speed to 20-30 kmph. In case of brake failure, use the parking brake to control the vehicle. Fasten the tow rope or tow bar at the towing eyes. Otherwise, the ve- hicle could be damaged. When towing, pull away slowly and smoothly. If the tractive power is too high, the vehicles could be dam- aged.  Tow Hook Fitment Open the tailgate and remove tow hook from the tool kit. Open the tow hook cover provided on the front bumper by pressing it at the bottom part and simultaneously pulling it at the top (as shown in fig). Screw in and tighten the tow hook in

and simultaneously pulling it at the top (as shown in fig). Screw in and tighten the tow hook in clockwise direction. After towing, remove the towing hook and press fit the cover properly. Place the towing hook in the vehicle tool kit. Recommended Towing In case of break down, we recommend that your vehicle be towed with the driving wheels off the ground or place the vehicle on a flatbed truck as shown. AX WARNING Do not tow your vehicle with the front wheels on the ground or four wheels on the ground (forward or backward), as this may cause seri- ous damage to the transmission. When towing with the rear wheels on the ground or on towing dollies, place the ignition switch in the ‘ACC’ or ‘ON’ position, and secure the steering wheel in the straight-ahead position with a rope or similar de- vice. EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN 217  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN FUSES Your vehicle has fuse boxes at three loca- ions. The vehicles electrical circuits have fuses ‘Oo protect the wiring from short

at three loca- ions. The vehicles electrical circuits have fuses ‘Oo protect the wiring from short circuits or sustained overload. 1. Battery Mounted Fuse Box. 2. Engine Compartment Fuse Box. 3. Cabin Compartment Fuse Box. Checking And Replacing Fuses If any electrical unit in your vehicle is not functioning, check the fuses first. 218 Please follow the steps below that will recognize by color and value. guide you to check and replace them. . NOTE + Apply parking brake Always make sure that the spare fuses + Switch off all electrical accessories. oan are added. + Turn the ignition key to the ‘LOCK’ po- sition. + Make sure that all other fuses are + In the fuse box, identify the defective pressed firmly in position. fuse from its melted wire. * Remove the defective fuse by “fuse puller”. The fuse puller and spare fuses are provided in the engine compart- ment fuse box. + If a newly inserted fuse also blows, have the cause traced and rectified at nearest TATA MOTORS Authorized

inserted fuse also blows, have the cause traced and rectified at nearest TATA MOTORS Authorized Dealer/Service Center immediately. Engine compartment fuse box + Defective fuses must be replaced with fuses of same rating, which you can  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ZX WARNING Engine Compartment Fuse Box 200A + If you manipulate or bridge a faulty BATT O ONO O fuse or if you replace it with a fuse with higher amperage, the electric cables could be overloaded. This CIRCUIT DIAGRAM could result in a fire. There is a risk of an accident and injury. + Always replace faulty fuses with the specified new fuses having the cor- rect amperage. STARTER FO1 MOTOR 200A WARNING If fuse box cover is removed for any @ NOTE reason, it should be refitted properly in The fuse box layout is for reference pur- its original position. pose only. Please refer the sticker pro- vided inside the fuse box cover. Battery Mounted Fuse Box 219  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN Fuses - Engine Compartment {e) A [ere] rece] cece AEE

Mounted Fuse Box 219  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN Fuses - Engine Compartment {e) A [ere] rece] cece AEE ALTERNATOR 150A MOL ia 1 Loaos 408 NOTE - : 2 ar ae ie ok Tia a7 ay O-iF cquipreD ©) No-40a av RLY. or 208 ws D HI 78895 >PP-1010< OO 63704006367 NR ‘7171-9159-30 Note: Please refer fuse box sticker on vehicle for more clarity. 220  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN 22 |STARTER FEEDBACK | 5A 23 [GSL 5A 1 |CPT SUPPLY-1 60A 24 |TPMS 5A 2_|ESP 40A RH HEAD LAMP & HL 4 |COOLING FAN 40A 25 |LEVELING 10A STARTER MOTOR 26 [INJECTORS 15A 5 |SOL 30A DCT ECU 5A 7 |CPT SUPPY-2 60A 27 baMT ECU 10A 9 |AMT/DCT_ECU 30A 28 |ECU SENSORS P 15A 10 |IGNITION 40A 38 |EMS ECU 20A 11 |EPAS 60A ECU RELAY CON- 12 [AC CLUTCH 10A 39 |TROL 5A 13 [ECU MAIN RELAY 30A REVERSE & BRAKE 14 |ESP 25A 41 |LAMP 10A HEAD LAMP LB & 42 |ESP 5A 15 |HB/LEVELING 20A FRONT WIPER HORN HIGH/LOW 43 |MOTOR 20A 16 |TONE 15A 44 | IGNITION CYLINDER | 15A Transmission Control 45 |REAR WIPER 10A 17 [Unit (AMT) 10A LH HEAD LAMP & HL 18 |EMS BATT 5A 46

15A Transmission Control 45 |REAR WIPER 10A 17 [Unit (AMT) 10A LH HEAD LAMP & HL 18 |EMS BATT 5A 46 |LEVELING 10A 20 |FUEL PUMP 15A ALTERNATOR (If 21 |BRAKE SW 5A 1__|equipped) 150A GLOW PLUG (if equipped) 60A 24 GLOW PLUG (if equipped) 5A 29 STARTER RLY-2 FB STARTER RLY-2 FB (if equipped) 5A 33 O2 SENSOR (if equipped) 10A 221  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN COOLING FAN 4 SLOW (if equipped) 20A 1 |STARTER RELAY-1 40A GLOW PLUG (f 2 | ENGINE ECU 40A 8 _|equipped) 40A 3 [COOLING FAN FAST | 40A 4 | INT WIPE (ON/OFF) | 20A 5 [AC CLUTCH 20A 6 | COOLING FAN FAST| 40A 7 [FUEL PUMP 20A REVERSE LAMP 8 |RELAY (AMT) 20A HEAD LAMP LOW 9 |BEAM/ HIGH BEAM 20A REAR WIPER 10 |MOTOR 20A 11. |HORN 20A 12 {IGNITION 40A FRONT WIPER 13. |MOTOR SPEED 20A STARTER SOLE- 14 |NOID RELAY-2 20A GLOW PLUG RELAY 2 (if equipped) 20A 222  Cabin Compartment Fuse Box Cover Removal Procedure Fuse box is located inside the cover below steering column. To access the fuse box, remove cover as per procedure given below. 1. Fuse

below steering column. To access the fuse box, remove cover as per procedure given below. 1. Fuse box cover is mounted on dash board with the help of lugs at the top and bottom of the cover from inside. 2. To remove the cover, gently pull the cover from upper side that the lugs get disengaged. EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN Re-fitment Procedure Align bottom lugs and push upper part with respective slots on dash board and press the cover firmly. Cabin compartment fuse box 223  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN Fuses - Cabin Compartment V ‘ON ‘A3Y Zt 66 09S POPS ‘ON'd GaddiNoa 4I[ |] ‘3.LON rsa 3Y3H G3.LNIdd 38 QINOHS 3GOONVE (vor) ba YALSSL xe OILSONOVIG = is Pa GY Py iS =< a | REG MOTOR] [BcM/DIsPLaY] El a J [5 S [5 fesruaren sear A Ea RTUSBCTYP Js R USB A+B [stt9 bea[ sma | v5 oes] a = a [POWER SOCKET] (voz) era (vor) zu (voz) 9¥ wazzna an Dad MduH 7a/TESTTD OSTTD ea] svaa ca] ovaulv YOLOW 4] wamo1a sa] c#woa sa] 2#Woa fea) BV Lanoos aod za] aao/20¥ X1ddNs NOI 2 [3 [etal 1s [* [és | WS astto YSTTD AT

c#woa sa] 2#Woa fea) BV Lanoos aod za] aao/20¥ X1ddNs NOI 2 [3 [etal 1s [* [és | WS astto YSTTD AT waMmoTd Note: Please refer fuse box sticker on vehicle for more clarity. 224  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN 1 BCM#1 20A 17 ETC/FATC 10A ACC RELAY 40A 2 ACC 415A ACCESSORY FUSE |. BLOWER 40A CONNECTOR/OBD 18 | HEATED REAR WIN- | 2 PDC BUZZER 3 PWR SKT RR 15A DOW HRW HEATED REAR WIN- 4 BCM#2 20A 19 PEPS ECU/WLC SA Dow 20A 5 BCM#S 20A KEY IN SA CDL LOCK 20A 6 BLOWER MOTOR | 30A 20 | _TELEMATIC ECU SA CDL UNLOCK 20A 7 AIRBAG 0A 1 Nee en 20A TAILGATE RELEASE 8 70A MANDO EPAS 5A INFO 10.25" 30A MOTOR 20A IGN SUPPLY 10A “ IGNITION RELAY 20A 22 | FRONTUSBC-TYPE | 5A 9 [MIRROR ADJUST MO- |", SON ReLay INVER- 30a TORS/BLOWER RLY 23 | FRONT USBC-TYPE/| 410A 10 POWER SOCKET 1 15A USB REAR A+C TYPE 11 CLUSTER 5A 24 | POWER SOCKET3 | 15A 12 |IGNSW/PEPS/ESCL|_10A 25 | BCM/INFO DISPLAY | 10A 13 CDL ACTUATOR 15A 26 | DRIVER REG MOTOR | 25A 4 SUNROOF 20A 27 | VENTILATED SEATS TAILGATE RELEASE 10A 15 10A MOTOR

26 | DRIVER REG MOTOR | 25A 4 SUNROOF 20A 27 | VENTILATED SEATS TAILGATE RELEASE 10A 15 10A MOTOR 28 |WIRELESS CHARGER| 5A 16 PDC/TELEMATIC/DUS 5A 29 IGNITION 2 410A T SENSOR IGN 225  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN BULB SPECIFICATIONS Sn. Description Rating Type Qty. 1 REAR BOOT LAMP 12V, SW W5W 1 2 GLOVE BOX LAMP. 12V, SW W5W 1 226  24 X 7 ROADSIDE ASSISTANCE Dear Customer, It is our responsibility and our endeavor to ensure that you have our complete service backup if ever, wherever and whenever you need the same. When you have a road network that spans wide area, the probability of a breakdown happening within hailing distance of a TATA MOTORS Authorized Workshop is very low. It is precisely for this reason, we have tied up with TVS Auto Assist and Allianz serv- ice provider, who will provide on-road serv- ices for repairable breakdown assistance including towing to the nearest TATA MO- TORS Authorized Workshop and ambu- lance for injured passenger to nearest hospital through their

TORS Authorized Workshop and ambu- lance for injured passenger to nearest hospital through their Authorized Service Providers (ASP). The 24X7 On Road Assistance Program shall be automatically available to your ve- hicle for the duration of Warranty period. The program shall also be available, if you avail the same post warranty. Standard Procedure When Calling For On-road Assistance In Case of A Breakdown * Dial the toll free help line number — 1800 209 8282 + Identify your vehicle with the Vehicle chassis number that is available in the Owner’s Manual. * Explain your exact location with land- marks and tell us about the problem you face with the vehicle. + Park your vehicle on the edge of the road, open the bonnet and put on the hazard warning signal. + Place the advance warning triangle supplied with the vehicle approx. 3 m from the vehicle in the direction of on- coming traffic. EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN Coverage Under 24 X 7 Roadside As- sistance Program I. The 24x7 Roadside

EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN Coverage Under 24 X 7 Roadside As- sistance Program I. The 24x7 Roadside Assistance Pro- gram Service covers the following services on your vehicle during warranty period. + Wheel change through spare wheel. + Arrangement of fuel. (Fuel cost will be chargeable at actual cost). + Re-opening the vehicle in cases of key lock out. + Rectification of electrical problems re- lated to battery, fuses etc. * On spot repairs for complaints re- pairable at site. + Vehicle to vehicle towing or winching & towing for non-accident cases up to the nearest TATA MOTORS authorized workshop. Towing charges at actual cost beyond the same to be paid on- line to the ASP. (Any ferry or toll charges levied in relation to the vehicle being towed to be paid by the cus- tomers in actuals in cash). For acci- dent cases, towing charges to be borne by the customer. 227  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN + In the event of major accident ambu- lance assistance will be provided if needed (If equipped).

+ In the event of major accident ambu- lance assistance will be provided if needed (If equipped). DAS | SERVICE us © 24x7 ROADSIDE ASSISTANCE 1800 209 8282 Il. The 24x7 Roadside Assistance Pro- gram coverage on availing the 24X7 pol- icy, post warranty is up to maximum of 6 instance of assistance in one year for both the plans Basic and Premium. In the pre- mium plan, this includes 2 instances of towing up to the nearest TATA MOTORS authorized workshop. 228 Exclusions 24 X 7 Roadside Assistance Program does not apply to * Cost of parts consumables and labor for such repairs not covered under warranty*. These charges are to be settled with ASP online. «Toll or ferry charges paid by ASP in reaching to the breakdown site to be settled with ASP in actuals in cash. * Cases involving fire, theft, vandalism, riots, lightening, earth-quake, wind- storm, hail, tsunami, unusual weather conditions, other acts of God, flood, etc. + Vehicles that are unattended, un-reg- istered, impounded or

other acts of God, flood, etc. + Vehicles that are unattended, un-reg- istered, impounded or abandoned. + Breakdown/defects caused by misuse, abuse, negligence, alterations or mod- ifications made to the vehicle. + Lack of maintenance as per the main- tenance schedule as detailed in the owner’s manual. * Cases involving racing, rallies, vehicle testing or practice for such events. Disclaimer The Service is not available in Lak- shadweep. **The reach time is indica- tive & the actual reach time will be conveyed by the call center at the time of breakdown call. The reach time can vary depending on the traffic density & time of the day. The reach time indicated does not ac- count for delays due to but not limited to acts of God, laws, rules & regula- tions for time being in force, orders of statutory or Govt. authorities, industrial disputes, inclement weather, heavy down pour, floods, storms, natural calamities, road blocks due to acci- dents, general strife and law & order conditions

natural calamities, road blocks due to acci- dents, general strife and law & order conditions viz. fire, arson, riots, strikes, terrorist attacks, war etc. * On spot repairs at breakdown site shall depend on nature of complaints & will be as per the discretion of the ASP. * The decision for free of charge re- pairs will be as per the warranty policy & procedures of TATA MOTORS PAS-  SENGER VEHICLES LIMITED and as per the interpretation of the same by ASP. You will be duly informed by the ASP & call center for the change appli- cable if any. + All charges wherever applicable need to be settled directly with the ASP. Exclusion of Liabilities + It is understood that TATA MOTORS shall be under no liability whatsoever in respect of any loss or damage aris- ing directly or indirectly out of any delay in or non-delivery of, defect/defi- ciency in service/parts provided by ASP. + Incase vehicle cannot be repaired on- site, customers are advised to use the towing facility for taking their

cannot be repaired on- site, customers are advised to use the towing facility for taking their vehicle to the nearest TATA MOTORS authorized workshop only. In no condition will the vehicle be towed to any unauthorized workshop. TATA MOTORS will not be responsible for any repairs carried out in such unauthorized workshop. + Customer are advised to take acknowl- edgment from the ASP for the list of ac- cessories/extra fittings and other be- longings in the vehicle as well as the current condition related to dents/scratches breakages of parts/fit- ments of the vehicle at the time of ASP taking possession of the vehicle & to verify these items when delivery is taken back by them, Claim for loss of or damage to items, if any should be taken up with ASP directly. TATA MO- TORS shall not be responsible for any such claims, damages/loss or any de- ficiency of service of the ASP. Vehicles will be handled, repaired & towed as per the customer’s risk & TATA MOTORS shall not be liable for any

be handled, repaired & towed as per the customer’s risk & TATA MOTORS shall not be liable for any damages / claims as a result of the same Services entitled to the customers can be refused or cancelled on account of abusive behavior, fraudulent represen- tation, malicious intent and refusal to pay the charges for any charges re- lated services and spare parts during service or on previous occasions on part of the customer. EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN + On site repairs may be temporary in nature. The completion of repairs does not certify the road worthiness of the vehicle. The customer is advised to en- sure temporary repairs carried out on- site is followed by permanent repairs at a TATA MOTORS Authorized Dealer/Service Center at the earliest. Terms and conditions and service cov- erage, exclusions etc. are subject to change without notice. E-call And B-call Services 1. Emergency hard switch button is pres- ent on roof console to operate the E- Call / B-Call feature (Emergency Medical

button is pres- ent on roof console to operate the E- Call / B-Call feature (Emergency Medical assistance / Breakdown assis- tance). 2. E-Call will be automatically triggered in case of vehicle crash/air bag is de- ployed in the event of accident. E-Call will be automatically triggered in case of vehicle crash/air bag is deployed in the event of accident. 3. On pressing emergency call button, a popup message appears on HU stat- ing: “Dialing emergency number in 5 229  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN seconds” & have a cancel button on the message box, so that user can cancel connecting to emergency num- ber in case it was done unknowingly. 4. In case of breakdown B-call can be triggered by pressing B-call switch. If E-call doesn’t get connected then emergency services are triggered im- mediately. 5. Once call is connected, user can can- cel the call using hard press button. 6. B-Call for breakdown assistance can be triggered by pressing B-Call switch provided in the vehicle. @ NOTE *Subject to

assistance can be triggered by pressing B-Call switch provided in the vehicle. @ NOTE *Subject to mobile network, connectivity and location mentioned. 230 Response Time ** For The E-call (roadside Assistance Program) -— Nonmu- Municipal — nicipal Area Area Reach time for . . 60 Min- medical assis-| 45 Minutes utes tance Reach time for . ‘ : . 60 Min- towing assis-| 45 Minutes utes tance Reach time for . : . 60 Min- vehicle cus-| 45 Minutes utes tody Response Time ** For The B-call (roadside Assistance Program) Within City Limits |60 minutes On State or Na- tional Highways Ghat Roads and other places States of North East, J&K and Himachal 45 minutes 120 minutes +/- Same Day (Within 24 Hrs.) ** The response time will depend on the location, terrain, traffic density and the time of the day.  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN List of below cities coverage for E-Call support Ambulance services will be provided only in the cities mentioned under the below mentioned categories. Allianz shall provide

provided only in the cities mentioned under the below mentioned categories. Allianz shall provide an am- bulance with basic life support or advanced life support based on the availability at the time of emergency call received from the break- down location. The criteria to choose the kind of ambulance shall be as per the requirement of the cus breakdown location & the nearest hospital & subject to availability. The judgement of Allianz in all cases will omer, distance from the be final. Category A: Ambulance services will be given under municipal limits of these cities varying from 15-25 Km radius. Hyderabad Vadodara Coimbatore Madurai Noida Bangalore Kochi Vijayawada Kolhapur Jaipur Mumbai Trivandrum Vizag Mysore Jodhpur Kolkata Indore Raipur Aurangabad Chandigarh Chennai Nagpur Surat Kozikhode Patna Delhi Pune Rajkot Warangal Amritsar Gurgaon Bhubaneshwar Bhopal Cuttack Navi Mumbai Faridabad Lucknow Ranchi Goa Thane Ghaziabad Kanpur Nashik Pondicherry Ahmedabad Varanasi Mangalore

Faridabad Lucknow Ranchi Goa Thane Ghaziabad Kanpur Nashik Pondicherry Ahmedabad Varanasi Mangalore Guntur 231  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN Category B: Ambulance services will be given under municipal limits of these within 15 Km radius. Adilabad Dahod Khandwa Rajnandgaon Adityapur Dakshin Dinajpur Kharagpur Ramanathapuram Agartala Daman Kishanjang Rampur Agra Dankuni Koch Bihar Raniganj Ahmednagar Darbhanga Kollam Ratlam Aizawl Darjeeling Korba Rewa Ajmer Davanagere Kota Rewari Akola Dehradun Kottayam Rishikesh Alappuzha Deoghar Kovilpatti Rohtak Aligarh Deoria Kozhikode Roorkee Allahabad Dhanbad Krishnagiri Rourkela Ambala Dhar Kurnool Rudrapur Ambikapur Dharamshala Kurukshetra Sagar Ambur Dharbhanga Kutch Saharsa Amethi Dharmapuri Lakhimpur Kheri Salem Amravati Dharmavaram Lalitpur Samastipur Amreli Dharwad Latur Sambalpur Anand Dhaulpur Lonavala Sangli Anantapur Dhule Ludhiana Sangrur Ankleshwar Dibrugarh Maharajganj Satara 232  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN Arakkonam Dindigul Mahbubnagar

Ankleshwar Dibrugarh Maharajganj Satara 232  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN Arakkonam Dindigul Mahbubnagar Satna Ariyalur Dispur Mahesana Secunderabad Arrah Durg Mainpuri Sehore Asansol Durgapur Malda Shahdol Auraiya Eluru Maldah Shahjahanpur Aurangabad Ernakulam Manaparai Shajapur Azamgarh Erode Mandsaur Shikohabad Badshahnagar Etah Manmad Shillong Bagbera Etawah Mansa Shimla Baghpat Faizabad Mapusa Shimoga Bahadurgarh Farrukhabad Margao Sholinghur Bahraich Fatehpur Mathura Sholingur Balaghat Ferozpur Mau Siddharthnagar Balasore Firozabad Mavelikara Sikar Baleshwar Firozpur Medak Siliguri Ballia Gadwal Medinipur Sirsa Baloda Gandhidham Meerut Sitapur Balrampur Gandhinagar Mehsana Sivaganga Bambolim Gaya Miryalaguda Siwan Banda Ghazipur Mirzapur Solan Bankura Giridih Moga Solapur Barasat Godhra Moradabad Sonbhadra 233  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN Bareilly Gonda Morbi Sonipat Barwani Gondia Morena Sri City Basti Gorakhpur Motihari Sri Ganganagar Bathinda Gudivada Muktsar Srirangam Begusarai

Sri City Basti Gorakhpur Motihari Sri Ganganagar Bathinda Gudivada Muktsar Srirangam Begusarai Gulbarga Murshidabad Sullurupeta Belgaum Guna Muzaffarnagar Supaul Bellary Gurdaspur Muzaffarpur Suryapet Bengaluru Guwahati Nadia Tadepalligudem Betul Gwalior Nagapattinam Tambaram Bhadohi Hajipur Nagercoil Taregana Bhadrak Haora Nainital Tatanagar Bhagalpur Hapur Nalgonda Tenkasi Bharatpur Hardoi Namakkal Thalassery Bharuch Haridwar Nanded Thanjavur Bhatinda Hassan Nandyal The Nilgiris Bhavnagar Hathras Navsari Theni Bhilai Hazaribagh Nawanshahr Thiruchirapalli Bhilwara Hingoli Nellore Thiruvalla Bhind Hisar New Farakka Thiruvallur Bhiwani Hooghly South Nizamabad Thiruvanathapuram Bhuj Hoshiarpur North Twenty four Parganas Thiruvarur Bhusawal Hosur Ooty Thrissur 234  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN Bidhan Nagar Hubli Osmanabad Thrivandram Biharsharif Imphal Palamapur Tindivanam Bijapur Jabalpur Palampur city Tiruchirappalli Bijnor Jaisalmer Palanpur Tirunelveli Bikaner Jalandhar Pali Tirupati

Palampur city Tiruchirappalli Bijnor Jaisalmer Palanpur Tirunelveli Bikaner Jalandhar Pali Tirupati Bilaspur Jalgaon (Chalisgaon) Panaji Tirupattur Birbhum Jalgaon Panipat Tiruppur Bokaro Jalpaiguri Panjim Tirur Bolpur Jammu Panna Tiruvanamalai Brahmapur Jamnagar Pantnagar Toothukudi Bulandshahr Jamshedpur Parappanangadi Tumkuru Buxar Jaunpur Paravur Tundla Calicut Jehanabad Parbhani Udaipur Chaibasa Jhansi Pathankot Udupi Chakradharpur Jhunjhunu Patiala Ujjain Chakulia Jind Perambalur Unnao Champa Jorhat Phagwara Vaikom Chandauli Junagadh Phaphund Valsad Chandil Jyotiba Phule Nagar Pithapuram Vaniyambadi Channapatna Kaithal Pollachi Vapi Chapra Kancheepuram Ponda Varkala Sivagiri Chengalpattu Kanniyakumari Port Blair Vellore 235  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN Chhatarpur Kannur Prayagraj Viluppuram Chhindwara Kanpur Nagar Puducherry Virudhampet Chhota Gobindpur Kanyakumari Pudukkottai Virudhunagar Chitradurga Karimnagar Puri Visakhapatnam Chitrakoot Karnal Purna Wardha Chittoor Katni Purnia

Chitradurga Karimnagar Puri Visakhapatnam Chitrakoot Karnal Purna Wardha Chittoor Katni Purnia Yavatmal Churu Katpadi Rae Bareli Yelahanka Cooch Behar Kaushambi Raigar Yemmiganur Cuddalore Kayamkulam Raigarh Yeswanthpur Cuddapah Khammam Rajahmundry Category C: For Outside city Limit cases & rest of the cities — Services will be aligned on best effort basis utilizing the service network from the nearest city or publicly available network. AWP’s liability for the provision of Assistance Services will cease once the emergency services have arrived at the breakdown location or on completion of towing or upon arrival of the Covered Vehicle at Authorised TATA Dealer or TATA Motors Authorized Service Centre. 236  FUEL SPECIFICATIONS Fuel (diesel) Normal grade BS VI compliant diesel con- forming to 1S1460:2017 or equivalent is recommended to be used as fuel. Do not use premium diesel available in the market for like extra premium / Turboje etc. Recommended Fuel Specifications Cetane Number

in the market for like extra premium / Turboje etc. Recommended Fuel Specifications Cetane Number (min) CN 51 Sulphur content mg/kg 10 Lubricity (HFRR) micron | 460 A\ WARNING Never use alcohol or mix diesel with al- cohol based fuels including kerosene etc. It will damage the engine, fuel sys- tem and other related systems. If acci- dentally done so, do not start the vehicle. Contact TATA MOTORS dealer. AX WARNING During cold weather conditions/freezing weather, diesel fuel thickens due to for- mation of paraffin layer. This results in difficulty of engine starting as there will be interruption of fuel supply to engine. It is advised to use locally available diesel fuel appropriate for the cold tem- perature conditions which are available at the filling stations during winter sea- son. Please check with your fuel retailer for further details. @ NOTE It is recommended to maintain minimum of 10 liters of fuel in the fuel tank. Driv- ing the vehicle till the fuel tank is empty is not

of 10 liters of fuel in the fuel tank. Driv- ing the vehicle till the fuel tank is empty is not advised. Always check fuel level before planning your journey. Fuel (petrol) Always use only unleaded fuel having an Octane Rating 91 / AKI (Antiknock Index) 87 or higher. Your vehicle is equipped with E20 compatible fuel system materials. It is TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS recommended to use Petrol, Ethanol blends below 20% only. Make sure those blended fuel has no lower Octane Rating as recommended for Petrol. NEVER USE LEADED FUEL. This could deteriorate catalytic converter and damage emission control system and affect the environment. 237  TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS LUBRICANT SPECIFICATIONS Use following genuine fluids, coolants and lubricants recommended for optimum performance of your vehicle. CASTROL GTX T 0W20 35 Li Petrol Engine Oil 0wW20 SS6588 EXXON Mobil _|Mobil Super 3000 TM OW20 ‘ Littes (Diesel) PETRONAS PETRONAS Syntium 7000 TM 0W20 Coolant (Pre- Ansysco Puroblue mixed)

OW20 ‘ Littes (Diesel) PETRONAS PETRONAS Syntium 7000 TM 0W20 Coolant (Pre- Ansysco Puroblue mixed) (Antifreeze | Class II/JIS K2234 SUNSTAR CCI |Golden Cruiser LLC 2200NP 5.5 Litres (Petrol) agent +Soft water | TATA SS7700S1 TATA MOTORS GENUINE COOLANT 6.5 Litres (Diesel) 40:60 ratio) IOCL KOOL PLUS IOCL Servo Syngear TM 75W-70 Transaxle Oil SAE75W70 HPCL HP Syngear 75W70 (T) 2.3 Litres TATA SS 6595 Exxon Mobil Mobil Super TM Genuine Transaxle Oil 75W-70 AMT Kit Oil Hydraulic oil PETRONAS TUTELA Cs-Speed As required DCT Oil FFL2 FUCHS FFL2 5.5 Litres PETRONAS Tutela Brake fluid DOT 4 Golden Cruiser Tata Genuine Brake Fluid Brake Fluid / SunstarCCl_ (p74) - SAE J 1703, DOT 4 . - As ired Cluteh fluid CASTROL Optional - CASTROL — Universal Brake $ require’ Fluid DOT 4 ANCHEMCO . ANAND Ansysco Brake Fluid DOT 4 238  TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS Item Specification Company Brand Qty. Refrigerant R-134a — _ 500420 gms Compressor Oil SP10 Sandan Vikas SP10 120415 CC Sunroof Grease MULTEMP 2C194

R-134a — _ 500420 gms Compressor Oil SP10 Sandan Vikas SP10 120415 CC Sunroof Grease MULTEMP 2C194 — _ As required 239  TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS VEHICLE SPECIFICATIONS Engine Model/type 1.5L Crail BSVI PH2 1.2L NGTC BSVI PH2 1.2L NGTC BSVI PH2 Capacity 1497 cc 1199 cc 1199 cc Max. Engine output 84.5 kW @ 4000 RPM 88.2 KW @ 5500 RPM 88.2 KW @ 5500 RPM Max. Torque 260 Nm @ 1500 -2750 RPM 170 Nm @ 1750-4000 rpm 170 Nm @ 1750-4000 rpm Transaxle Option | - 6 Speed MT/AMT TA Mode 6 Speed Manual TA 6300 Option Il - 5 Speed Manual TA DT1 -DCT 7 Speed 6300 Type Synchromesh on all forward gears and sliding mesh on reverse gear} Dual Clutch Transmission No. Of gears 6 forward and 1 reverse 5 forward and 1 reverse 7 forward and 1 reverse 5 forward and 1 reverse Steering Type Column mounted EPAS Brakes Brakes Front Disc Brake ; Rear Drum Brake , Dia. 200 Parking brake Cable operated Mechanical Suspension Type Dual Path Mcpherson strut with anti-roll bar Shock absorber Hydraulic Shock Absorber 240

Type Dual Path Mcpherson strut with anti-roll bar Shock absorber Hydraulic Shock Absorber 240  TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS Wheels & tyre Tyres Base 195/60 R16 (Radial -Tubeless), High 215/60 R16 (Radial -Tubeless) Spare Wheel - 195/60 R16 (Radial -Tubeless) Wheel Size 6J X 16” Steel / 6.5J X16” Alloy wheel Fuel tank Capacity 44 liters Cab / body Type Monocoque Electrical system System voltage 12 Volts (-ve earth) Alternator capacity 110 Amp 110 Amp, 120 Amp 110 Amp, 120 Amp Battery 12V DIN 60 12V DIN 52 12V DIN 60 Main chassis dimension (in mm) Wheel base 2498 Track front 1540 Track rear 1530 Overall length 3995 Overall height 1620 Max. Width 1804 Ground clearance Laden -172 mm Performance 241  TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS Parameter Diesel Petrol DCT Max. Speed 165 kmph Max. Recommended gradebil- 30% ity Minimum Turning Circle Dia. in meter as per 1S:12222 10.7m Minimum Turning Clearance circle dia. in meters as per 11.4m 1$:12222 Weight (in kg) Gross vehicle weight (Laden) 1668 to 1752 1590

dia. in meters as per 11.4m 1$:12222 Weight (in kg) Gross vehicle weight (Laden) 1668 to 1752 1590 to 1688 1590 to 1688 Kerb weight (unladen) 1258 to 1342 1180 to 1278 1180 to 1278 242  TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS VEHICLE DIMENSIONS NOTE: Dimensions are in mm unladen condition 243  TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS AGGREGATE IDENTIFICATION Transaxle No. Punching (DCT) Engine No. Plate — Petrol VIN plate below driver seat 244  MAINTENANCE AND CARE ENGINE COMPARTMENT Engine Compartment - Diesel 1. Air Filter 4. Dip stick engine oil 7. Battery 2. Brake fluid reservoir 5. Fuse and relay Box 8. Coolant auxiliary tank 3. Engine oil filling cap 6. Windshield washer container 245  MAINTENANCE AND CARE Engine Compartment — Petrol With MT/ AMT and DCT 1. Air Filter 4. Engine oil filling cap 7. Battery 2. Dip Stick — Engine Oil 5. Fuse & relay box 8. Coolant auxiliary tank 3. Brake fluid reservoir 6. Windshield washer container 246  MAINTENANCE AND CARE ENGINE OIL LEVEL Engine oil dipstick - Diesel Engine

washer container 246  MAINTENANCE AND CARE ENGINE OIL LEVEL Engine oil dipstick - Diesel Engine oil dipstick - Petrol Warm up the engine to normal operating temperature. Turn it ‘OFF’ and wait for 5 minutes for the oil to return to the oil pan. Be sure the ve- hicle is on a level surface. Take out the dipstick, wipe it clean, and reinsert it fully. Pull it out again and exam- ine the oil level. It should be between ‘MIN’ and ‘MAX’ level. If not, top up with recom- mended engine oil. @ NOTE + The oil consumption depends upon the driving style and the conditions under which the vehicle is used * Do not remove the filler cap when the engine is running. + Do not add oil above than the MAX. mark. Oil level above the MAX. %, mark may cause engine damage. RS For location of Engine oil filling cap and dip stick, please refer image of the re- spective Engine Compartment. 247  MAINTENANCE AND CARE BRAKE FLUID LEVEL Brake Fluid Oil - Diesel 248 Brake Fluid Level - Petrol The level of the brake

BRAKE FLUID LEVEL Brake Fluid Oil - Diesel 248 Brake Fluid Level - Petrol The level of the brake fluid should be be- tween the ‘MIN’ and ‘MAX’ marks provided on the side of the brake fluid container. If he level falls below the ‘MIN’ mark, add recommended brake fluid. + Do not allow brake fluid to make contact with the skin or eyes. * Do not allow brake fluid to splash or spill on the paint surface as it will damage the paint. In case of Spillage, wipe it off immediately. For location of Brake Fluid Container and filling cap, please refer respective Engine Compartment.  ENGINE COOLANT LEVEL Coolant tank - Diesel Coolant Tank - Petrol Check whether the coolant level is be- tween the ‘MIN’ and ‘MAX’ marks provided on the coolant reservoir. When the coolant levels is low, top up with recommended coolant up to ‘MAX’ level. Whenever coolant has been added, the coolant level in the coolant reservoir should be checked the next few times you drive the vehicle to confirm correct level.

reservoir should be checked the next few times you drive the vehicle to confirm correct level. MAINTENANCE AND CARE For location of Engine coolant con- tainer and filler cap, please refer image of Engine Compartment. @ NOTE + In case of emergency, a large amount of water without engine coolant may be added in order to reach a vehicle service location. * Topping up of the coolant should be done in the auxiliary tank only. + Make sure that only TATA MOTORS recommended coolant is used. Mix- ing of different coolants may harm your engine’s cooling system and its components. Do not add extra in- hibitors or additives to the coolant. These can be harmful and compro- mise the corrosion protection of the engine coolant. + Use high quality ethylene glycol coolant 249  MAINTENANCE AND CARE A\ WARNING The engine cooling system is pressur- ized, particularly when the engine is warm. When opening the cap, you could be scalded by hot coolant spray- ing out. There is a risk of injury. Let the engine

cap, you could be scalded by hot coolant spray- ing out. There is a risk of injury. Let the engine cool down before open- ing the cap. Wear eye and hand protec- tion when opening the cap. Open the cap slowly half a turn to allow pressure to escape. Be sure to replace or replenish your coolant in accordance with the mainte- nance schedule. Before winter, have your coolant tested to that its freezing point is sufficient for the temperatures anticipated during the winter. 250 WINDSHIELD WASHER FLUID LEVEL Examine if there is washer fluid in the tank. Fill it if necessary. Use a good quality fluid, diluted with water as necessary. @ NOTE + Do not use detergent or any other additive in the windshield washer reservoir. This can severely impair visibility when sprayed on the wind- shield, and can also damage your vehicle’s paint. Do not operate washer motor with no fluid in washer tank, washer motor will be damaged. For location of Windshield Washer Container and filling cap, please refer

motor will be damaged. For location of Windshield Washer Container and filling cap, please refer image of the respective Engine Com- partment.  BATTERY Examine the battery for electrolyte level against the marking on the bat- tery outer case. Examine the battery terminals for cor- rosion (a white or yellowish powder). To remove it, wash the terminals with a solution of baking soda. It will bubble up and turn brown. When this stops, wash it off with plain water. Dry off the battery with a cloth or paper towel. Apply petroleum jelly to the terminals to prevent further corrosion. Use a proper wrench to loosen and re- move cables from the terminals. Always disconnect the negative (-ve) cable first and reconnect it last. If your vehicle is equipped with Battery Sensor, then disconnect only the Sen- sor Output Cable. Do not remove the Sensor, Sensor connector completely as this will result into Sensor function loss temporarily. Sensor functionality will be restored when the Vehicle is

into Sensor function loss temporarily. Sensor functionality will be restored when the Vehicle is parked for 3-4 hours without any oper- ation. Clean the battery terminals with a ter- minal cleaning tool or wire brush. Reconnect and tighten the cables, coat the terminals with petroleum jelly. Make sure that the battery is securely mounted. If you need to connect the battery toa charger, disconnect both cables to pre- vent damage to the vehicle’s electrical system. If your vehicle is equipped with Battery Sensor, connect the jump start leads on output terminal of Battery Sensor. Do not connect the jump start leads on Sensor surface or Battery terminal. This will result of function loss of Bat- tery sensor. Refer the below Battery Sensor image for do’s and don'ts. MAINTENANCE AND CARE For location of battery, please refer image of the respective Engine Com- partment. 251  MAINTENANCE AND CARE @ NOTE @ NOTE Use only authorized Battery recom- * During normal operation, the battery mended

CARE @ NOTE @ NOTE Use only authorized Battery recom- * During normal operation, the battery mended by TATA Motors. Use of any generates gas which is explosive in other unauthorized Battery will result nature. A spark or open flame can into Intelligent Alternator Control (IAC) cause the battery to explode caus- function detoriation. ing very serious injuries. + Keep all sparks, open flames and smoking materials away from the battery. + The battery contains sulphuric acid (electrolyte) which is poisonous and highly corrosive in nature. Getting electrolyte in your eyes or on the skin can cause severe burns. Wear protective clothing and a face shield or have a skilled technician to do the battery maintenance. 252  1 2 3 UNDER INFLATION CORRECT OVER INFLATION OY & Excessive side tread wear 1 Under inflation Correct tyre pressure Uniform wear Excessive cen- 3 Over inflation ter tread wear Inflation Check for inflation and condition of your vehicle tyres periodically. Check the pressure in

Check for inflation and condition of your vehicle tyres periodically. Check the pressure in the tyres when they are cold. Keeping the tyres properly inflated gives you the best combination of riding comfort, handling, tyre life and better fuel efficiency. Over inflation of tyres makes the vehicle tide bumpy and harsh. Tyres are more prone to uneven wear and damage from road hazards. Under inflated tyres reduce your comfort in vehicle handling and are prone to fail- ures due to high temperature. They also cause uneven wear and more fuel con- sumption. @ NOTE Every time you check inflation pressure, you should also examine tyres for un- even wear, damage and trapping of for- eign objects in the treads and wear. MAINTENANCE AND CARE Recommended Tyre Pressures 215/60/32 psi //32 psi /[32 psi / R16 2.20 bar |2.20 bar |2.20 bar 195/60]32 psi /|32 psi /|/32 psi / R16 2.20 bar |2.20 bar |2.20bar @ NOTE This is for reference. Kindly refer Tyre pressure as indicated on tyre pressure sticker

@ NOTE This is for reference. Kindly refer Tyre pressure as indicated on tyre pressure sticker provided on vehicle. 253  MAINTENANCE AND CARE Tyre Rotation To increase tyre life rotate the tyre at spec- ified intervals or earlier depending on the operation of vehicle. The illustrations shows how to rotate tyres. For 195/60 R16 5 C4 S-__ 254 For 215/60 R16 tyre with smaller size temporary tyre equipped = “Es 5 4 Do NOT USE SPARE TYRE @ NOTE + Do not use spare wheel for tyre ro- tation, in case of temporary spare wheel used. + Two or more temporary tyres should not be used on one vehicle. + Tyre pressure to be checked every 15 days. + Tyre pressure of temporary wheel is to be checked at least once in ina month. Wheel Alignment And Balancing Alignment: Incorrect wheel alignment causes excessive and uneven tyre wear. Check wheel alignment at specified inter- vals. Balancing: Wheels of your vehicle are balanced for better ride comfort and longer tyre life. Balancing needs to be done

your vehicle are balanced for better ride comfort and longer tyre life. Balancing needs to be done whenever tyre is removed from rim. ZX WARNING If the vehicle vibrates abnormally on a smooth road, have the wheel balanced done immediately. Special Care For Tubeless Tyres + When you remove the tyre and install it back on the rim, take precautions not to damage tyre bead. Use tyre removal and assembly machines. Damage or cut on tyre bead may cause gradual loss of air and deflation of tyre. * Do not scratch the inner surface of  tubeless tyre with metallic or sharp ob- ject. Tubeless tyres are coated with im- permeable layer of rubber from the inner surface which holds the air in the yre. Removal of this layer due to scratching may cause gradual loss of air and deflation. if wheel rim gets damaged in service, get the wheel rim repaired/ replaced immediately. Running the vehicle with damaged rim may cause deflation of lyre and subsequent dislodging of tyre rom rim. Keep the recommended

rim may cause deflation of lyre and subsequent dislodging of tyre rom rim. Keep the recommended inflation pres- sure. Over-inflation, in particular, may cause puncture or bursting of tyre. @ NOTE Life and wear pattern of tyres depends on various parameters like tyre pres- sure, wheel alignment, wheel balanc- ing, tyre rotation, etc. It also largely depends on vehicle speed, load carried, usage, driving habits, road conditions, tyre quality, etc. In case fault is sus- pected to be due to poor quality of tyres, the same may be taken up with con- cerned tyre manufacturer. Tyre Equipment Summer tires have a tread designed to provide superior performance on dry pave- ment. However, the performance of these tyres will be substantially reduced in wet conditions. If you operate your vehicle on wet roads, use all season tyres for all four wheels. Special Winter Equipment It is recommended that the following items be carried in the vehicle during winter: * Ascraper and stiff-bristled brush to

the following items be carried in the vehicle during winter: * Ascraper and stiff-bristled brush to re- move ice and snow from the windows and wiper blades. * Ashovel to dig the vehicle out of snow- drifts. + Extra windshield-washer fluid to refill the reservoir tank MAINTENANCE AND CARE VEHICLE PARKING for LONG DU- RATION (NON - USE MAINTE- NANCE) If you want to park your vehicle at one place for long duration, following care is to be taken: 1. Park the vehicle in covered, dry and if possible well-ventilated premises. En- gage a gear. 2. Remove the battery terminal cables (first remove the cable from the nega- tive terminal). Ensure that battery is fully charged. 3. Use wheel chocks to prevent move- ment of the car. 4. Clean and protect the painted parts using protective wax. 5. Clean and protect the shiny metal parts using commercially available special compounds. 6. Sprinkle talcum powder on the rubber windscreen wiper and lift them off the glass. S| ightly open the windows. 255

powder on the rubber windscreen wiper and lift them off the glass. S| ightly open the windows. 255  MAINTENANCE AND CARE SMART KEY BATTERY REPLACE- 8. Cover the vehicle with a cloth or perfo- rated plastic sheet. Do not use sheets of imperforated plastic as they do not allow moisture on the vehicle body to evaporate. 9. Inflate the tyres to 0.5 bar above the normal specified pressure and check it at regular intervals. 10.Check the battery charge every six weeks. 11.Do not drain the engine cooling sys- tem. MENT (For PEPS variant) Procedure 1. Open rear side of key (battery cover). 2. Replace with new battery in the smart key battery slot. 3. Ensure that the “+” symbol on the bat- tery is facing upwards. The correct po- larity is shown on the battery cover. 4. Close the battery cover. 5. Make sure that the key cover is intact properly. @ NOTE + Use CR 2032 battery only. + An inappropriately disposed battery can be harmful to the environment and human health. Dispose the bat- tery

disposed battery can be harmful to the environment and human health. Dispose the bat- tery according to your local law(s) and regulation. 256  ON BOARD DIAGNOSTIC (OBD Il) SYSTEM On board Diagnostics or OBD, is an auto- motive term referring to a vehicle’s self-di- agnostic and reporting capability. The OBD system allows continuous diagnosis of the components of the vehicle correlated with emissions. This system warns the driver, by turning “ON” the Malfunction Indication lamp (MIL) on the instrument cluster, when a fault causes emission levels to increase. The OBD system also has a diagnostic connector that can be interfaced with ap- propriate diagnostic tools, which makes it possible to read the fault codes stored in the Electronic Control Unit, together with a series of specific parameters for Engine operation and Diagnosis. This check can also be carried out by the traffic police. On board diagnostic located in Engine compartment fuse box. (refer below image) MAINTENANCE AND CARE

board diagnostic located in Engine compartment fuse box. (refer below image) MAINTENANCE AND CARE 257  MAINTENANCE AND CARE PARK REGENERATION PROCE- DURE DPF is emission reduction system which removes the soot (Particulate matter) from the exhaust gas through regeneration process. Regeneration is triggered automatically during vehicle driving conditions which burns the accumulated soot/PM from the DPF. However it may not trigger automat- ically in certain driving conditions, this in- cludes driving at low vehicle speeds, driving in heavy city traffic, short trips, fre- quent start/stop, prolonged running of the engine in idle conditions etc. In such cases, the soot/PM gets accumu- lated in DPF and a warning lamp will be il- luminated in the instrument cluster indicating that soot regeneration is insuffi- cient and need external intervention. 258 Park Regeneration Pre-check Condi- tions + Park regeneration should be done only when DPF lamp ment cluster appears on instru- « Ensure the

+ Park regeneration should be done only when DPF lamp ment cluster appears on instru- « Ensure the vehicle parked in open area & on flat road (avoid parking in enclosed space/ near grass/ flamma- ble material) + Ensure adequate fuel availability + Apply park break, shift the gear in neu- tral with engine running * Open the bonnet to prevent engine overheat + Switch off the A/C * Accelerator/ Brake/ Clutch pedal should not be pressed during the pro- cedure @ NOTE If vehicle does not enter regeneration mode or if Park regeneration is inter- rupted, stop the engine (Key Off), wait for 20 seconds and repeat the Park re generation procedure. Option I: HMI Based Regeneration (If equipped) Step 1 + Notification will pop up on display when DPF is filled with soot particles and needs to be regenerated. + Tap on View Details to start the DPF regeneration process manually. Step 2 * Once all pre conditions are met, “Start  Regeneration” icon will be enabled. + Press the Start Regeneration to

conditions are met, “Start  Regeneration” icon will be enabled. + Press the Start Regeneration to start DPF regeneration. Step 3 * Once DPF regeneration starts, the sta- tus will be displayed on screen. + The engine rpm will raise gradually during this process. Step 4 + DPF regeneration completion mes- sage will be displayed after successful regeneration. + Turn off the ignition for a minute and then start vehicle normally. Option II: Regeneration Through Igni- tion Switch 1. Stop the engine and wait for 20 sec- onds 2. Provide ignition toggle (Push button/ Key position ON« OFF) for 6 times within 20 seconds 3. Start the engine 4. Monitor engine state: Within 10 sec- onds, engine speed raises to 1600 rpm & further up to 2000 & 2500 rpm as the regeneration progresses. After the end of regeneration, engine speed drops to 1200 rpm and to idle after 1 minute. The process takes ~30-40 minutes to finish. 5. Stop the engine and wait for 20 sec- onds 6. Check DPF lamp status on instrument

to finish. 5. Stop the engine and wait for 20 sec- onds 6. Check DPF lamp status on instrument cluster (On/ Off) 7. \f the DPF lamp does not turn off in spite of the procedure, visit authorized Tata Motors dealer MAINTENANCE AND CARE DO IT YOURSELF + Check tyres for unusual wear, cracks or damage and embedded foreign ma- terial such as nails, stones, etc. * Check traces of fluid and oil below ve- hicle. + Check there is sufficient fuel for the trip. * Check windshield, windows, mirrors, lights, and reflectors are clean and un- obstructed. * Check all lamps, wipers, wiper blades and horn for proper operation. * Check all switches, gauges and tell tales are working properly. * Check all doors, engine bonnet and tail gate are securely closed and latched. All doors, engine bonnet and tail gate are securely closed and latched. * Check tool kit, jack & handle, warning triangle, owner’s manual, first aid kit and vehicle documents are available and stored at their locations. Tool kit, jack &

first aid kit and vehicle documents are available and stored at their locations. Tool kit, jack & handle, warning triangle, owner’s manual, first aid kit and vehi- 259  MAINTENANCE AND CARE cle documents are available and stored at their locations. * Check engine oil level, coolant level, brake fluid level once in a month or be- fore every long trips. * Check battery electrolyte level once in a month. + Check fuel level. @ NOTE + Water dripping below the car is nor- mal. This is due to the usage of air conditioning system. + Tyre pressure always be measured in cold conditions. Do a check of tyre pressure and condition after every 15 days, including the spare tyre. 260  SERVICE INSTRUCTIONS The TATA NEXON has been manufactured to give you econom- ical and trouble free performance. To achieve this, please follow the instructions as stated. Your vehicle is entitled to three free services (labour only). The free service coupons are attached to the sales invoice. Please present these

(labour only). The free service coupons are attached to the sales invoice. Please present these coupons to the servicing dealer while availing free services. 1st free service - At 1000-2000 kms. OR 2 months, whichever is earlier. 2nd free service - At 7000-8000 kms. OR 6 months, whichever is earlier. 3rd free service - At 14500-15500 kms. OR 12 months, whichever is earlier. All services other than free services are chargeable. MAINTENANCE AND CARE Servicing of the vehicle can be done at any TATA MOTORS Au- thorised Dealer Workshop or TATA MOTORS Authorised Service Centre (TASC). Warranty claims can be settled by any TATA MOTORS Authorised Dealer Workshop or TATA MOTORS Authorised Service Centre (TASC). 261  MAINTENANCE AND CARE SERVICE SCHEDULE SN _ Operation GENERAL N SS nN oe) +ro © Nn Oo OF © So N + o - , * More Frequently For Vehicle, Operating In Severe Condi Wash the vehicle & Clean Condenser Fins. Every Serv- ice Check & Top up Fluids (If required): Transaxle Oil,Coolant, Brake

Condenser Fins. Every Serv- ice Check & Top up Fluids (If required): Transaxle Oil,Coolant, Brake Fluid, Battery Elec- trolyte, Wind Screen washer fluid. Every Serv- ice Check Fuel Lines for Leakages. Every Serv- ice Check and Capture all DTC’s Clear all faults and Erase the Codes. Every Serv- ice 262  MAINTENANCE AND CARE SN _ Operation a 3 seass99¢8ee8R8 = Note: # Kms Or Months Whichever Occurs Earlier, * More Frequently For Vehicle, Operating In Severe Condition Check & Replace ex- haust hanger if found damaged (Rubber age- ing/cracks/enlarged 30K/ 5 |mounting hole 24M e e . e e size/harden rubber/ab- normal noise due to free moment of rod hanger) Check all door latch & striker operations, Ad- 15K/ 6 |just If required and e e e e e e e O e O - 12M apply grease if re- quired. Check condition of rub- 7 ber bushes /parts in conitnued on next page... 263  MAINTENANCE AND CARE SN _ Operation N x - N o © -} iJ N oO 4 + o bs Note: # Kms Or Months Whichever Occurs Earlier, * More

_ Operation N x - N o © -} iJ N oO 4 + o bs Note: # Kms Or Months Whichever Occurs Earlier, * More Frequently For Vehicle, Operating In Severe Condition lower control arms front & rear coil spring seats, front & rear bump stop- pers, anti roll bar links, rear twist beam, rubber boots/dust cover/bellow in rack & pinion, steer- ing and suspension ball 75K/6 joints, steering column.| ” elele,elje;/eleslsele;elelele;/eleleje;/eje|se Replace if necessary. (First at 7.5K / 6M then at every service). For severe usage, above checks to be done at every 5,000 km or after every severe usage event 264  MAINTENANCE AND CARE SN _ Operation n S a |2 |a |s |8 |9 |2 |s |S |B |8 = Note: # Kms Or Months Whichever Occurs Earlier, * More Frequently For Vehicle, Operating In Severe Condi Check for all bolts & nuts (Tighten).For se- vere usage, above 75K/6 8 |checks to be done at| ° elfelfelelel/e/e;/eljel/el/el/elelele{/e{efelejse every 5,000 km or after every severe usage event ENGINE (Diesel) Clean air

every 5,000 km or after every severe usage event ENGINE (Diesel) Clean air filter element (more frequently for ve-| 7.5K / hicle operating in se-| 6M vere condition) Change engine oil and) 15K/ 2 |Oil fiter. 12M ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° 3 Drain water from Fuel] 15K/ e e ° . ° e e e . e Filter Bowl. 12M 265  MAINTENANCE AND CARE SN _ Operation N +<~+ So © -} iJ N 5 = nm vt © i = Note: # Kms Or Months Whichever Occurs Earlier, * More Frequently For Vehicle, Operating In Severe Condition Replace fuel filter as- 4 |sembly replaced based| # 24M on lamp status/24M Check AC & alternator 5 belt condition visually,) 15K/ e e . ° . e e e e e replace if found dam-| 12M age. Check timing belt visual #105K 6 |condition, replace if e 124M found damage. Replace air filter ele- 7 ment (more frequently] 45K / e e e for vehicle operating in| 36M severe condition). 8 Change coolant # 60K / e e 36M 266  MAINTENANCE AND a ARE SN _ Operation n 3 seass99¢8ee8R8 = Note: # Kms Or Months Whichever Occurs Earlier, *

AND a ARE SN _ Operation n 3 seass99¢8ee8R8 = Note: # Kms Or Months Whichever Occurs Earlier, * More Frequently For Vehicle, Operating In Severe Condition Replace timing drive kit} # 9 |(Timing belt, Auto ten-| 150K/ O sioner and Idler). 60M ENGINE (Petrol) Clean air filter element (more frequently for ve-| 15K / 1 hicle operating in se-| 12M ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° vere condition). Change engine oil and 15K / 2 Oil filter 12M e e e e e e e e e e Gasoline - Replace 3. |Gasoline Fuel Filter. # 75K / . . 72M 267  MAINTENANCE AND CARE SN _ Operation N +<~+ So © -} iJ N ° - NO O vt o ~~ = Note: # Kms Or Months Whichever Occurs Earlier, * More Frequently For Vehicle, Operating In Severe Condition 30K / 4 |Change Spark plugs 24M . . e e e Check accessory belt 15K | 5 _|condition visually, re- 12M e . e . e e e e e e place if found damage. Replace air filter ele- ment (more frequently 45K / 6 | for vehicle operating in e e e severe condition). 36M # 60K / 7 _|Change coolant 36M . e TRANSAXLE

for vehicle operating in e e e severe condition). 36M # 60K / 7 _|Change coolant 36M . e TRANSAXLE (Petrol & Diesel) | 75K/ 1 |Change Transaxle oil 60M . e 2 |Change DCT Oil and) 120K/9 . Oil filter 6M 268  MAINTENANCE AND CARE SN _ Operation a S a |2 |a |s |8 |9 |2 |s |S |B |8 = Note: # Kms Or Months Whichever Occurs Earlier, * More Frequently For Vehicle, Operating In Severe Condition AMT KIT OIL (Petrol & Diesel) Check AMT kit oil level sit should be in between min & max. level. When| Every 1 |the vehicle is in stand-| Serv. | e | e;|e;lelele,/e;,e/ejejel/el/el/el/ele{/e{/e{eleje still and ignition ON) ice condition. Top up AMT kit oil if necessary. BRAKES Check front brake pads a 15K / 1 & rear brake linings. e e e e e e e hd e hd . 12M Replace if necessary. Replace brake fluid Check brake system] #45K components for Leak-| / 24M ages. 269  MAINTENANCE AND CARE SN _ Operation N o 28 - a 8 8 oo) So N + o bs ° = Note: # Kms Or Months Whichever Occurs Earlier, * More Frequently For

- a 8 8 oo) So N + o bs ° = Note: # Kms Or Months Whichever Occurs Earlier, * More Frequently For Vehicle, Operating In Severe Condition Inspect & if necessary 3. Jadjust handbrake set- 15K | e e e e e e O e e e . 12M ting. WHEELS & TYRES Check & adjust wheel alignment. (Above checks to be done at| # 15K every 5k km or after} / 12M every severe usage event) Check for Tyre pres- #7.5K sure, condition & rotate. 112M elelelel/e;eleslseleleol}elel/el/e;el/ele/e;eje ELECTRICAL Check specific gravity | 7.5K/6 of battery electrolyte. M 270  MAINTENANCE AND CARE SN _ Operation N x - N oo -} iJ N ao o + o bs ° = Note: # Kms Or Months Whichever Occurs Earlier, * More Frequently For Vehicle, Operating In Severe Condition 2 Check headlamp fo-) 15K/ cussing. 12M A.C. SYSTEM Check Air-conditioning / HVAC System for satis-| Every 1 |factory performance] Serv-|e|e|e;e}/e;/e/e;/el/el/el/e|l/el/esl/e;}el/el/e;eleje/je also Inspect Pollen fil-| ice ter Replace AC _ filter 15K / 2 |(Pollen filter). 12M .

also Inspect Pollen fil-| ice ter Replace AC _ filter 15K / 2 |(Pollen filter). 12M . . . e . . e . e . Replace Combi PM2.5 15K / 3 {filter 12M . e . e . . e . e . 271  MAINTENANCE AND CARE SN _ Operation N +ro © oo) i=} N - Nn Oo 04 + o bs Note: # Kms Or Months Whichever Occurs Earlier, * More Frequently For Vehicle, Operating In Severe Cond! SUNROOF (if equipped) Check and clean the 15K | 1 guide rails and drain 12M e e e e e e e e e e holes. Severe conditions are as below - A: Repeatedly driving short distance of less than 7 km. B: Extensive low speed driving for long distances. C: Driving on rough, dusty, muddy, unpaved, graveled or salt-spread roads. D: Frequently driving in heavy traffic area & in stop & go condition E: Driving only on uphill, downhill, or mountain roads. F: Vehicle towing, driving for petrol car, taxi, or other commercial use G: Frequently driving under high speed & acceleration. 272  CAR CARE Your vehicle is subjected to many external influences such as

speed & acceleration. 272  CAR CARE Your vehicle is subjected to many external influences such as climate, road condi- tions, industrial pollution and proximity to the sea. These conditions demand regular care of the vehicle body. Dirt, insects, bird droppings, oil, grease, fuel and stone chip- pings should be removed as soon as pos- sible. Washing Following these tips while washing your vehicle. 1. Always wash your vehicle in shade and ensure surface is at room temper- ature. 2. Wash with mild vehicle wash soap like ‘Car Shampoo’ and use a soft bristle brush, sponge or soft cloth and rinse it frequently while washing to avoid scratches. 3. To avoid scratches, please wear soft gloves. Remove finger rings, nails, wrist watch while washing. 4. To remove stubborn stains and con- taminants like tar, use turpentine or cleaners like ‘Stain remover’ which are safe for paint surfaces. . Avoid substances like petrol, diesel, kerosene, benzene, thinner, acids or other solvents that cause damage

like petrol, diesel, kerosene, benzene, thinner, acids or other solvents that cause damage to paint. . Dry your vehicle thoroughly to prevent any damp spots. . Rinse all surfaces thoroughly to pre- vent any traces of soap and other cleaners as this may lead to the forma- tion of stains on the painted surface later. . During washing of the vehicle, do not apply water jet OR pressure water from pipe directly on any rubber mate- rial or Seal surface. This is to avoid damage to Rubber sealing parts in the sunroof system or in the vehicle. The damage to the sunroof sealing or any other seal in the vehicle will cause water ingress inside the vehicle. MAINTENANCE AND CARE Avoid parking the car under trees without proper cover, it will reduce the amount of bird droppings, tree sap and pollen contact on paint sur- face. Regularly remove the twigs, leaves and vegetation near the windshield areas, to avoid water stagnation. Always close the sunroof while washing the vehicle. 273  MAINTENANCE AND

to avoid water stagnation. Always close the sunroof while washing the vehicle. 273  MAINTENANCE AND CARE AX WARNING Do not direct high pressure washer fluid/ water jets (Pressure above 0.5 bar) at electrical devices and connecter during washing. This is to prevent mal- function / failure of electrical system due to water ingress. After drying the vehicle, inspect it for chips and scratches that could allow corrosion to start. Apply touch up paint where nec- essary. Cleaning of Carpets Vacuum clean the carpet regularly to re- move dirt. Dirt will make the carpet wear out faster. Periodically, shampoo the car- pet to keep it looking new. Use carpet cleaners (preferably foam type). Follow the instructions that come with the cleaner. Apply it with a sponge or soft brush. Keep the carpeting as dry as possible by not adding water to the foam. 274 Avoid wiping of painted surface in dry condition as it may leave scratches on the painted surface. Cleaning of Windows, Front and Rear Glasses

as it may leave scratches on the painted surface. Cleaning of Windows, Front and Rear Glasses Clean the windows inside and outside with commercially available glass cleaners. This will remove the haze that builds up on the inside of windows. Use a soft cloth or paper towels to clean all glass and plastic surfaces. Waxing Waxing and polishing is recommended to maintain the gloss and wet-look appear- ance of your paint finish. 1. Use good quality polish and wax for your vehicle. 2. Re-wax your vehicle when the water does not slip off the surface but col- lects over the surface in patches. Polishing Polishes and cleaners can restore shine to the painted surface that has oxidized and become dull. They normally contain mild abrasives and solvents that remove the top layer of the finish coat. Polish your ve- hicle, if the finish does not regain its origi- nal shine after using wax. Interior Fabric Cleaning Tips 1. Stains should be treated immediately. If left for a long time, they can leave

Cleaning Tips 1. Stains should be treated immediately. If left for a long time, they can leave a permanent mark. 2. Cleaning the stains immediately is im- portant especially for stains, which contain artificial colors in the stain cre- ating liquid or semisolid substance. The colorant may leave a stain if kept for longer time. 3. Stain should not be removed by rub- bing. As far as possible, try to blot or lift the stain with cloth or plastic spatula and then clean the remaining stain with cloth or sponge. 4. Ifthe stain has dried, then gently brush off the material and then press with  6. damp cloth or sponge till it disappears. Do not use household detergents to clean the fabric. Always use clean cotton cloth for cleaning. Paint Care Following guidelines will help you to pro- tect your vehicle from corrosion effectively. @ NOTE Avoid Spillage or Direct contact of Air freshener liquid/chemicals with painted plastic parts. These chemicals may cause damage to paint like blisters, peel

with painted plastic parts. These chemicals may cause damage to paint like blisters, peel off, wrinkles etc. Proper Cleaning In order to protect your vehicle from corro- sion it is recommended that you wash your vehicle thoroughly and frequently in case: There is a heavy accumulation of dirt and mud especially on the underbody. Itis driven in areas having high atmos- pheric pollution due to smoke, soot, dust, iron dust and other chemical pol- lutants. It is driven in coastal areas. The underbody must be thoroughly pressure washed after every three months. In addition to regularly washing your car, the following precautions need to be taken. Periodic Inspection Regularly inspect your vehicle for any damage in the paint film such as deep scratches and immediately get them repaired from an authorized service outlet, as these defects tend to accel- erate corrosion. Inspect mud liners for damages Keep all drain holes clear from clog- ging. MAINTENANCE AND CARE Proper Parking Always park

damages Keep all drain holes clear from clog- ging. MAINTENANCE AND CARE Proper Parking Always park your vehicle in shade do not expose the vehicle to direct sun- light for extended period of time . Extended exposure to sunlight may deform plastic parts like dashboard, leather surface etc. Item like cigarette lighter, perfume spray, soft drink can kept inside the ve- hicle in direct sunlight may result in fire explosion etc. Do not park your vehicle for long dura- tion in front of glass building where di- rect sunlight is exposed on the glass which reflects and may transfer the heat on vehicle. In this case plastic parts may melt. 275  MAINTENANCE AND CARE Wiper Care + To prevent damage to the wipers or windshield, do not operate the wipers when the windshield is dry. + To prevent damage to the wiper arms and other components, do not attempt to move the wipers manually. @ NOTE We strongly recommended to avoid ap- plying any external coating solution on vehicle glazing / glasses,

recommended to avoid ap- plying any external coating solution on vehicle glazing / glasses, especially on Front & Rear Windscreen Glass. This may affect the Wiper performance & lead to poor visibility while using Wipers in wet condition/Rainy season. 276  MAINTENANCE AND CARE Value Care - AMC Value Care (AMC) is a fixed cost maintenance plan that guarantees protection against unexpected re- pairs & provides substantial savings through protection against inflation & price volatility of consumables SRA WIGTORS (ERE during the running of the vehicle. BEST VALUE Our customers can choose from Value Care Gold and Value Care Silver plan as per the requirement & usage to ensure hassle free, reliable & economic maintenance of the vehicle. Coverage — Schedule Service and Wear & Tear. | Advantage (Customer Benefits) + Price protection against rising prices of lubes and parts. + Ahigher resale value for your vehicle. VALUE CARE : . : . MAINTENANCE PLANS * Peace of mind with Cashless repairs &

for your vehicle. VALUE CARE : . : . MAINTENANCE PLANS * Peace of mind with Cashless repairs & services. + Vehicle servicing at a workshop of your choice pan India. * Covers Repairs including Wear & Tear parts viz. Brakes, Suspension, Wiper, Clutch, Brake Pads, Brake Liners etc. * Covers Scheduled maintenance services including Lubricants, Parts, Wheel Alignment and Balancing Labour. + Available at unmatched value.... Huge Savings!!! * Savings on Goods & Services Tax whenever vehicle attend under AMC. 277  MAINTENANCE AND CARE Equipped Offers (Types of AMC) Silver AMC Gold AMC Silver AMC Value Care Silver Plan covers the following: ARONA Scheduled maintenance Change of Oil Filter, Fue’ services at periodic interval of Km for Labor, Parts & Consumables. Filter, Air Filter & Sediment. Change of Engine Oil and Transmission Oil (if applicable). Change of Coolant, Brak General Checkup, Wheel! e Oil & Clutch Fluid*. Alignment / Balancing (Excluding Balancing Weight). Washing of Vehicle,

e Oil & Clutch Fluid*. Alignment / Balancing (Excluding Balancing Weight). Washing of Vehicle, Wheel greasing as applicable. Gold AMC The value care Gold Plan ex scheduled service and other Scheduled maintenance In addition to coverage men both Parts & Labour. 1. ends your scheduled maintenance cover to include any normal wear and tear items identified during the vehicle parts that need to replace during the period of cover arising from proper and uniform usage. services at periodic interval of Km for Labor, Parts & Consumables. ioned under Silver AMC, the Gold AMC also covers Repairs or Replacement of Wear & Tear Items for Brake Pads, Brake Liners, Wheel Cylinders. Suspension Bush, Wiper 2. Clutch Disc, Clutch Cover, Cables, Mountings. 3. 4. Washing of Vehicle, Wheel greasing as applicable. Blades, Auxiliary Belt & other Wear & Tear Items. 278  MAINTENANCE AND CARE @ NOTE + AMC is available in the dealership from where you have purchased your vehicle. + We strongly recommend purchase

in the dealership from where you have purchased your vehicle. + We strongly recommend purchase of AMC at time of purchase of your vehicle to get benefit for coverage of Scheduled Services and Wear & Tear parts. + The Dealer Service Marketing Executive shall explain to you the Terms and conditions, Coverage and Owner’s responsibility. * One Time payment is to be made to avail AMC offer. + Please read the offer e-Booklet for further details about coverage and exclusions of various AMCs. Owner’s Responsibility + Proper use, maintenance and care of the vehicle in accordance with the instructions contained in the Owner’s Manual and Service Booklet. The records of the same to be ensured in Owner’s Manual. + Retention of maintenance service bills. | / We have been explained the Terms and conditions, Coverage and Owner's responsibility by the Dealer Service Marketing Execu- tive. | | wish to avail ia Do not wish to avail extended warrant policy. Customer’s Signature Dealer’s Signature 279

avail ia Do not wish to avail extended warrant policy. Customer’s Signature Dealer’s Signature 279  MAINTENANCE AND CARE VALUE ADDED SERVICES . - Ba == Why are Corrosion Protection Waxes necessary? — WuURTH Corrosion Is Caused By: Water / salt water acid rain & atmospheric fallouts. CAR CARE Aut - Critical Areas Are: Krome Cavities: joints, crevices, spot welds, underbody * Corrosion is the most important factor when we talk about the vehicle life. If you treat your car you can prolong the life. + It is very dangerous to drive around in a corroded vehicle. + The corrosion creeps onto the vehicle from the inside and from the outside. The most dangerous kind of corrosion is often not dis- covered until it is too late. Benefits of Anti - Rust Treatment: + Aprofessionally applied range of world class products offering real value to the new and used vehicle customer. + The treatment has been developed to withstand the harshest environmental and climatic conditions (rust. Pollutants, stone

developed to withstand the harshest environmental and climatic conditions (rust. Pollutants, stone and gravel impact, etc.) + Insulate cabin space from external noises. + Expensive tin work and Denting / Painting avoided. + Higher resale value for the vehicle. + Higher safety — uncorroded vehicle + 10 free checkups available 280  MAINTENANCE AND CARE TATA MOTORS has tied up with M/s Wurth, M/s Autokrom, M/s 3M India Lt d & M/s Bardahl for these world class treatment at af- fordable prices. These treatments are available in all authorized workshops. The Dealer Service Marketing Executive will explain to you the benefits and terms and conditions of this treatment. | / We have been explained the Benefits, Terms and conditions and the prices of these treatments by the Dealer Service Marketing Executive. | | wish to avail ia Do not wish to avail extended warrant policy. Customer’s Signature Dealer’s Signature 281  MAINTENANCE AND CARE VEHICLE INTERIOR ENRICHMENT Why To Protect Your New

Dealer’s Signature 281  MAINTENANCE AND CARE VEHICLE INTERIOR ENRICHMENT Why To Protect Your New Car’s Fabric Interior? Someone will spoil your vehicle’s fabric carpet or seats. Asignificant detractor from your vehicle’s resale value. A permanent stain on your vehicle’s interior fabric. Vehicle Interior Gets Affected From: Drink Spills - Food Stains - Mud - Ultraviolet Rays Pets - Traffic Benefits: Vehicle Interior Enrichment Removal of medium stains and dirt from all interior parts of the car i.e., carpet, upholstery and roof lining. Cleaning of windshield and all windows (inside and outside). Dressing of all internal plastics (e.g.: door pad trims) and rubber parts. The treatment involves cleaning and dressing of all parts of the exposed interiors. Specialised protection for seat fabric from liquid spills. TATA MOTORS has tied up with M/s Wurth and M/s Autokrom for this world class treatment at affordable prices. This treatment is available in all authorized workshops. The Dealer

treatment at affordable prices. This treatment is available in all authorized workshops. The Dealer Service Marketing Executive will explain to you the benefits and terms and conditions of this treatment. | / We have been explained the Terms and conditions, Coverage and Owner’s responsibility by the Dealer Service Marketing Execu- tive. | | wish to avail / LC] Do not wish to avail extended warrant policy. Customer’s Signature Dealer’s Signature 282  MAINTENANCE AND CARE VEHICLE EXTERIOR ENRICHMENT Why Vehicles Are Painted? = Wu y Vehicles Are Painte wy WURTH + For Corrosion protection of the metal surfaces. * Ease of application from other corrosion protection treatments. * Cheaper than other corrosion protection methods eg. Galvanizing, anodizing. Autg ™ ean Gane + For decoration and identification. Various Environmental Hazards Affecting Paints Environmental hazards: destroy your vehicle’s finish. Even as your new vehicle rolls off the assembly line, the paint is not protected.

vehicle’s finish. Even as your new vehicle rolls off the assembly line, the paint is not protected. Vehicle Paint Gets Affected From: Ultraviolet Rays, Pollution, Tree Sap, Bird Droppings, Car Wash Chemicals, Road Salt, Acid Rain. Benefits: Vehicle Exterior Enrichment + Removal of medium scratches, orange peel, oxidation, dust nibs etc. & swirl marks from painted surface. + Restoration of original gloss levels, UV protection after gloss is restored. * Cleaning & dressing of tyres, Bumpers & all exterior plastic moldings/trims. TATA MOTORS has tied up with M/s Autokrom, M/s 3M & M/s Wurth for this world class treatment at affordable prices. This treatment is available in all authorized workshops. The Dealer Service Marketing Executive will explain to you the benefits and terms and con- ditions of this treatment. 283  284  ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION Tata Motors is committed to provide envi- ronment friendly clean and safe vehicles. Your vehicle is produced with latest tech- nology features

friendly clean and safe vehicles. Your vehicle is produced with latest tech- nology features and designed for sustain- able performance considering that you will take care of it as per guideline given in this manual. This will ensure to protect the en- vironment which is the issue of present and future. Although we know you will follow the in- struction given in this manual, We would like to mention few easy tips to be fol- lowed. This will help all of us to protect the environment from pollution due to vehi- cles. * Do not race immediately after starting the cold engine. * Do not run the engine to max speed in each gear. + Try to maintain constant speed as far as possible. + Do not rave the engine unnecessarily. + Do not carry any unnecessary weight in the vehicle as it will affect fuel econ- omy. Avoid sudden acceleration and fre- quent gear shifting. Avoid high speed driving, maintain moderate speed. Do not rest your foot on clutch pedal while driving. Always maintain the

maintain moderate speed. Do not rest your foot on clutch pedal while driving. Always maintain the recommended tyre pressure. Switch off the engine during long stop e.g. traffic signal, traffic jam etc. Avoid long idle, unnecessary stop- ping/braking. Never switch off engine while coasting down hill. Keep your vehicle regular serviced as recommended. Ensure that there is no leakage from exhaust system, air inlet system, inter- cooler system. Ensure your vehicle is checked for PUC as per intervals at authorized center. Use only recommended grades of fuel, ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION coolant and lubricants. + Never allow the vehicle to run out of fuel. + Avoid unnecessary honking. ZA\ CAUTION Do not pour used oils or coolants into the sewage drains, garden soil or open streams. 285  286  WARRANTY TERMS & CONDI- TIONS We WARRANT each TATA MOTORS PASSENGER VEHICLE and parts thereof manufactured by us to be free from defect in material and workmanship subject to the following terms and

by us to be free from defect in material and workmanship subject to the following terms and conditions: 1. This warranty shall be for a period of 3 years from the date of sale of the car or a mileage of 1,00,000 Kms whichever occurs earlier. 2. Our obligation under this warranty shall be limited to repairing or replacing, free of charge, such parts of the car which, in our opinion, are defective, on the car being brought to us or to our dealers within the period. The parts so repaired or replaced shall also be warranted for quality and workmanship but such war- ranty shall be co-terminus with this original warranty. 3. Any part which is found to be defective and is replaced by us under the war- ranty shall be our property. 4. As for such parts as Tyres, Batteries, Audio and / or Video equipment (if any), etc. not manufactured by us but supplied by other parties, this warranty shall not apply, but buyers of the car shall be entitled to, so far as permissi- ble by law, all such rights

apply, but buyers of the car shall be entitled to, so far as permissi- ble by law, all such rights as we may have against such parties under their warranties in respect of such parts. . This warranty shall not apply if the car or any part thereof is repaired or al- tered otherwise than in accordance with our standard repair procedure or by any person other than from our sales or service establishments, our authorized dealers, service centres or service points in any way so as, in our judgment which shall be final and bind- ing, to affect its reliability, nor shall it apply if, in our opinion which shall be final and binding, the car is subjected to misuse, negligence, improper or in- adequate maintenance or accident or loading in excess of such carrying ca- pacity as certified by us, or such serv- ices as prescribed in our Owner's Manual are not carried out by the buyer through our sales or service es- tablishments, our authorized dealers, WARRANTY service centres or service points. .

or service es- tablishments, our authorized dealers, WARRANTY service centres or service points. . This warranty shall not apply to the replacement of normal wear parts, including without limitation, drive belts, hoses, wiper blades, fuses, clutch disc, brake shoes, brake pads, cables and all rubber parts (except oil seal and glass run). . This warranty shall not cover any in- herent normal deterioration of the car or any of its parts arising from the ac- tual use of the car or any damage due to negligent or improper operation or storage of the car. . This warranty shall not apply to normal maintenance services like oils & fluid changes, head lamps focusing, fas- tener retightening, center hub cap/wheel cover. wheel balancing and alignment, tyre rotation, adjustment of valve clearance, fuel timing, ignition timing and consumables like bulbs, fuel, air & oil filters and gas leaks in case of air conditioned cars. . This warranty shall not apply to any damage or deterioration caused by

of air conditioned cars. . This warranty shall not apply to any damage or deterioration caused by en- 287  WARRANTY vironmental pollution or bird droppings. Slight irregularities not recognized as affecting the function or quality of the vehicle or parts, such as slight noise or vibration, defects appearing only under particular or irregular operations are items considered characteristics of the vehicle. 10. This warranty shall be null and void if the car is subjected to abnormal use such as rallying, racing or participation in any other competitive sport. This warranty shall not apply to any repair or replacements as a result of accident or collision. 11. This warranty is expressly in lieu of all warranties, whether by law or other- wise, expressed or implied, and all other obligations or liabilities on our part and we neither assume, nor au- thorize any person to assume on our behalf, any other liability arising from the sale of the car or any agreement in relation thereto. 12. The

any other liability arising from the sale of the car or any agreement in relation thereto. 12. The buyer shall have no other rights except those set out above and have, 288 13. 14. 15. in particular, no right to repudiate the sale, or any agreement or to claim any reduction in the purchase price of the car, or to demand any damages or compensation for losses, incidental or indirect, or inconvenience or conse- quential damages, loss of car, or loss of time, or otherwise, incurred or ac- crued. Any claim arising from this warranty shall be recognized only if it is notified in writing to us or to our authorized dealer without any delay soon after such defects as covered & ascertained under this warranty. This warranty is fully transferable to subsequent vehicle owner. Only un- expired remaining period of war- ranty applies. We reserve our rights to make any change or modification in design of the car or its parts or to introduce any im- provement therein or to incorporate in the car any

of the car or its parts or to introduce any im- provement therein or to incorporate in the car any additional part or acces- sory at any time without incurring any obligation to incorporate the same in the cars previously sold.  EXTENDED WARRANTY TERMS & CONDTIONS TATA MOTORS recommends the purchase of its extended warranty program. Coverage - Mechanical + Electrical Benefits + Insures you against unforeseen break down repair bills. + Documentation is simple and hassle free. + Near cashless & speedy claim Term 36 + 12 months or 1,00,000 kms whichever occurs first OR 36 + 24 months or 1,25,000 kms whichever occurs first EXTENDED WARRANTY TATA MOTORS | SERVICE BEST VALUE EXTENDED WARRANTY UP TO 5 YEARS Extended Warranty is available in the dealership from where you have purchased your vehicle. We strongly recommend purchase of Extended Warranty at time of purchase of your vehicle. Extended Warranty can be availed until warranty period from date of purchase of vehicle. The Dealer Service

Warranty can be availed until warranty period from date of purchase of vehicle. The Dealer Service Marketing Executive shall explain to you the Terms and conditions, Coverage and Owner’s responsi- bility. Note + The extended warranty comes into force once the manufacturer’s warranty expires. + Itis more restrictive as by the time it comes into force the vehicle is already 36 months old. What Is Covered? * Mechanical / Electrical break down as defined in this warranty and confirmed by the dealer within the stipulated terms and condi- tions. + TATA MOTORS dealer shall either repair or replace any part found to be defective with a new part or an equivalent at no cost to 289  EXTENDED WARRANTY the owner for parts or labour. + Such defective parts which have been replaced will become property of TATA MOTORS PASSENGER VEHICLE LIMITED. What Is Not Covered? Please refer the Extended Warranty Booklet for details of the exclusion list. Soft copy can be available with the dealer. Owner’s

Booklet for details of the exclusion list. Soft copy can be available with the dealer. Owner’s Responsibility + Proper use, maintenance and care of the vehicle in accordance with the instructions contained in the Owner’s Manual and Service Booklet. The records of the same to be ensured in Owner’s Manual. + Retention of maintenance service bills. | / We have been explained the Terms and conditions, Coverage and Owner’s responsibility by the Dealer Service Marketing Execu- tive CO] | wish to avail / CI Do not wish to avail extended warrant policy. Customer’s Signature Dealer’s Signature 290  Customer’s copy Dealer’s copy @e TATA PDI Coupon NEXON «Ip TATA PDI Coupon NE&XON Pre Delivery Inspection Pre Delivery Inspection AVAIL ALL SERVICES TO GET BENEFIT OF WARRANTY This Coupon entitles for free labour jobs.(Refer maintenance section) Owner’s Name: Owner's Name: VIN No.: VIN No.: Engine / Motor No.: Engine / Motor No.: Reg. No.: ODO Reading: Reg. No.: Date of Sale: Date of Service: ODO

Motor No.: Engine / Motor No.: Reg. No.: ODO Reading: Reg. No.: Date of Sale: Date of Service: ODO Reading: Service Dealer code: Date of Service: | hereby certify that the PDI has been carried out to my entire satisfaction. Service Dealer’s Stamp & Signature Customer’s Signature Service Dealer’s Stamp & Signature (Free Service coupons are valid at all TATA Authorized Service Centers in India)   Customer’s copy Dealer’s copy ap tata 1° Free Service Coupon Lhd 1% Free Service Coupon NEXON NEXON TATA P Valid for 1000 - 2000 kms. OR 2 months, Valid for 1000 - 2000 kms. OR 2 months, whichever is earlier. Whichever is earlier AVAIL ALL SERVICES TO GET BENEFIT OF WARRANTY This Coupon entitles for free labour jobs.(Refer maintenance section) Owner’s Name: Owner's Name: VIN No.: VIN No.: Engine / Motor No.: Engine / Motor No.: Reg. No.: ODO Reading: Reg. No.: Date of Sale: Date of Service: ODO Reading: Service Dealer code: Date of Service: | hereby certify that the service has been carried out

Service Dealer code: Date of Service: | hereby certify that the service has been carried out to my entire satisfaction. Service Dealer’s Stamp & Signature Customer’s Signature Service Dealer’s Stamp & Signature (Free Service coupons are valid at all TATA Authorized Service Centers in India)   Customer’s copy ap tata 2" Free Service Coupon NEXON Valid for 7000 - 8000 kms. OR 6 months, whichever is earlier Owner’s Name: VIN No.: Engine / Motor No.: Reg. No.: ODO Reading: Date of Service: Service Dealer’s Stamp & Signature Dealer’s copy ih Tata 2" Free Service Coupon NE XON Valid for 7000 - 8000 kms. OR 6 months, whichever is earlier. AVAIL ALL SERVICES TO GET BENEFIT OF WARRANTY This Coupon entitles for free labour jobs.(Refer maintenance section) Owner’s Name: VIN No.: Engine / Motor No.: Reg. No.: Date of Sale: Service Dealer code: ODO Reading: Date of Service: | hereby certify that the service has been carried out to my entire satisfaction. Customer’s Signature Service Dealer’s Stamp

service has been carried out to my entire satisfaction. Customer’s Signature Service Dealer’s Stamp & Signature (Free Service coupons are valid at all TATA Authorized Service Centers in India)   Customer’s copy ap tata 3" Free Service Coupon NE XON Valid for 14,500 — 15,500 kms. OR 12 months, whichever is earlier Owner's Name: VIN No.: Engine / Motor No.: Reg. No.: ODO Reading: Date of Service: Service Dealer’s Stamp & Signature Dealer’s copy hd Tata 3 Free Service Coupon NE XON Valid for 14,500 — 15,500 kms. OR 12 months, whichever is earlier. AVAIL ALL SERVICES TO GET BENEFIT OF WARRANTY This Coupon entitles for free labour jobs.(Refer maintenance section) Owner's Name: VIN No.: Engine / Motor No.: Reg. No.: ODO Reading: Date of Sale: Date of Service: Service Dealer code: | hereby certify that the service has been carried out to my entire satisfaction. Customer’s Signature Service Dealer’s Stamp & Signature (Free Service coupons are valid at all TATA Authorized Service Centers in

Stamp & Signature (Free Service coupons are valid at all TATA Authorized Service Centers in India)   TATA MOTORS | SERVICE RESPONSIVE ¢ RELIABLE ¢ BEST VALUE REFINISHING SOLUTIONS BODY & PAINT DIAGNOSTIC ASSESSMENT TRAINING EXTENDED VALUE GARE EXPERT AND CERTIFICATION EEL EN MAINTENANCE PLANS

