Manualslib.com - Simplified Manuals Manuals / Brands / TATA Motors Manuals / Automobile / Punch 2021 / Owner's manual / PDF TATA MOTORS PUNCH 2021 OWNER'S MANUAL Table of Contents Table of Contents SAFETY Important Information Seat Belts Child Restraint System (CRS) Supplementary Restraint System (srs) (airbags) (if equipped) Child Lock (if equipped) Anti-theft Device Immobilizer / PEPS Anti-lock Braking System (ABS)  Electronic Brake Force Distribution (EBD) Brake Sway Control (bsc) Stuck Mode Recovery (traction Pro) (if applica- ble) OPENING AND CLOSING Keys Smart Key (if available) Smart Key Features Flip Key Flip Key Features Doors Windows Tail Gate Opening Fuel Lid DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Cockpit Instrument Cluster (TFT Screen) Instrument Cluster (LCD Screen) Tell Tales Audio Reminders (as available) Combi-switch (RH Stalk) (if available) Head Lamp Leveling Rotary Switch Combi-switch (LH Stalk) (if available) Dashboard Controls Steering Mounted Controls (LHS) (if available)

(LH Stalk) (if available) Dashboard Controls Steering Mounted Controls (LHS) (if available) Steering Mounted Controls (RHS) (if available) Mic (if available) Infotainment System Display (if available)  Speakers & Tweeter (if available) Usb Port (if available) Power Socket (if available) Antenna Roof Grab Handle Roof Lamp Boot Lamp (if available) Front Lamp Tail Lamp STOWAGE AREAS Storage Compartment Hooks (if available) Tag Holder (if available) Front Seat Back Pockets (if available) CLIMATE CONTROL Air Distribution Air Vents ELECTRONIC TEMPERATURE CONTROL (ETC) (if available) Fully Automatic Temperature Control (FATC) (if available) STARTING AND DRIVING Pre Driving Checks Driving Tips Seat Adjustments Rear View Mirrors Orvm Folding (as applicable) Sun Visors (if available) Electric Power Assisted Steering (EPAS)  Steering Wheel Adjustment Steering Lock And Ignition Switch (if available) Starting And Stopping (without PEPS) Starting And Stopping (PEPS) (if available) Engine Passive

Starting And Stopping (without PEPS) Starting And Stopping (PEPS) (if available) Engine Passive Start - Conditions Engine Passive Stop - Conditions Gear Shifting Reverse Gear Driving Automated Manual Transmission (AMT) (If fit- ted) Starting The Engine Braking Drive Mode Current Gear Indication Gear Recommendation Idle Stop Start (iss) (if available) Parking Brake Vehicle Parking Reverse Park Assist With Sensor (if available) Rear View Camera (if available) EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Emergency Equipment Spare Wheel Removal Process In Case Of Flat Tyre Puncture Repair Kit (if available) Jump Starting Your Car Towing  Fuses Bulb Specification 24 X 7 ROAD ASSISTANCE MAINTENANCE Maintenance And Service Engine Compartment (MT) Engine Compartment (AMT) Engine Oil Level Brake Fluid Level Engine Coolant Level Checking Amt Oil Reservoir Level Windshield Washer Fluid Level Battery Spark Plug (petrol) Tyres Smart Key Battery Replacement (For PEPS variant) On Board Diagnostic (OBD II)

Plug (petrol) Tyres Smart Key Battery Replacement (For PEPS variant) On Board Diagnostic (OBD II) System Service Instructions Service Schedule Vehicle Parking For Long Duration (Non - Use Maintenance) TECHNICAL INFORMATION Fuel Specification Lubricant Specification Technical Specifications Vehicle Dimensions Aggregate Identification Numbers VEHICLE CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES  Car Care Fast Tag Value Care - Amc Extended Warranty Value Added Services Vehicle Exterior Enrichment Vehicle Interior Enrichment WARRANTY - TERMS AND CONDITIONS Vehicle Warranty: Terms And Conditions ENVIRONMENT SAFETY Environmental Safety  qa TATA PUNCH OWNER’S MANUAL TATA MOTORS Revision: Rev 00/SEPT 2021  CUSTOMER ASSISTANCE In our constant endeavour to provide assistance and complete service backup, TATA MOTORS has established an all India cus- tomer assistance centre. In case you have a query regarding any aspect of your vehicle, our Customer Assistance Centre will be glad to assist you on our Toll Free

aspect of your vehicle, our Customer Assistance Centre will be glad to assist you on our Toll Free no. 1800 209 8282 @ You can also approach nearest TATA MOTORS dealer. A separate Dealer network address booklet is provided with the Owner’s manual. TATA MOTORS 24X7 Roadside Assistance Program offers tech- nical help in the event of a breakdown. Call the toll-free Road- side Assistance. For additional information, refer to "24X7 Roadside Assis- tance" section in the Owner's manual. REFINISHING SOLUTIONS BODY & PAINT VALUE CARE WAIVTENANCE PLANS, EXT! D WARRANTY UPTO YEARS RAPID REPAIR non BODY REPAIRS  FOREWORD Dear Customer, Welcome to the TATA MOTORS family. We congratulate you on the purchase of your new vehicle and are privileged to have you as our valued customer. We urge you to read this Owner's Manual carefully and familiarize yourself with the equipment descriptions and operating instructions before driving. Always carry out prescribed service / maintenance work as well as any

instructions before driving. Always carry out prescribed service / maintenance work as well as any required repairs at an authorized TATA MOTORS Dealers or Authorized Service Centre’s (TASCs). Use only genuine parts for continued reliability, safety and performance of your vehicle. You are welcome to contact our dealer or Customer Assistance toll free no. (1800 209 8282) in case of any query or support required. We wish you a safe and pleasant driving experience. TATA MOTORS Bombay House, 24, Homi Modi Street, Hutatma Chowk, Fort, Mumbai - 400001  IMPORTANT INFORMATION e Before driving, read this Owner’s manual carefully and familiarize yourself with your vehicle. For your own safety and a longer ve-hicle life, follow the instructions, ‘Warnings’ and ‘Notes’ in this manual. Ignoring them could result in damage to the or personal injury to you or others. e The Owner’s manual and other booklets are important documents and should always be kept in the vehicle. If you sell the vehicle,

booklets are important documents and should always be kept in the vehicle. If you sell the vehicle, always pass on the documents to the new owner. e This Owner's Manual describes all variants of the model and all standard/optional equipment of your vehicle available at the time of printing. Please note that your vehicle may not be equipped with all features described. e TATAMOTORS PASSENGER VEHICLE LIMITED reserves the right to introduce changes in the design, equipment and technical features without any obligation to install them on the vehicles previously sold. The equipment in your vehicle may therefore differ from that shown in the descriptions and illustrations. e Donotcarry out any modification including fitment of non-genuine accessories on your vehicle. Safety, handling, performance and durability, may otherwise be adversely affected and may violate government regulations. TATA MOTORS PASSENGER VEHICLE LIMITED no liability for damage resulting from the modifications or use of

MOTORS PASSENGER VEHICLE LIMITED no liability for damage resulting from the modifications or use of non-genuine accessories. e All rights reserved. The information in this manual shall not be copied, translated or otherwise reproduced, in whole or inpart without written permission from TATA MOTORS. © Copyright 2021 TATAMOTORS  CONTENTS 01. SAFETY Doors 31 Important Information 1 Windows 32 Seat Belts 4 Tail Gate Opening 36 Child Restraint System (CRS) 7 Fuel Lid 37 Supplementary Restraint System (srs) (airbags) , . 12 (if equipped) 03. DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Child Lock (if equipped) 18 Cockpit 39 Anti-theft Device Immobilizer / PEPS 19 Instrument Cluster (TFT Screen) 40 Anti-lock Braking System (ABS) 20 Instrument Cluster (LCD Screen) 56 Electronic Brake Force Distribution (EBD) 21 Tell Tales 68 Brake Sway Control (bsc) 21 Audio Reminders (as available) 75 Stuck Mode Recovery (traction Pro) (if applica- 21 Combi-switch (RH Stalk) (if available) 76 ble) Head Lamp Leveling Rotary Switch

(if applica- 21 Combi-switch (RH Stalk) (if available) 76 ble) Head Lamp Leveling Rotary Switch 77 Combi-switch (LH Stalk) (if available) 77 Dashboard Controls 79 Keys 25 Steering Mounted Controls (LHS) (if available) 80 Smart Key (if available) 27 Steering Mounted Controls (RHS) (if available) 81 Smart Key Features 28 Mic (if available) 83 Flip Key 29 Infotainment System Display (if available) 83 Flip Key Features 30 Speakers & Tweeter (if available) 84 Vv  CONTENTS Usb Port (if available) 85 Fully Automatic Temperature Control (FATC) (if 400 Power Socket (if available) 85 available) Antenna 86 Roof Grab Handle 86 06. STARTING AND DRIVING Roof Lamp 87 Pre Driving Checks 107 Boot Lamp (if available) 87 Driving Tips 108 Front Lamp 88 Seat Adjustments 110 Tail Lamp 88 Rear View Mirrors 114 Orvm Folding (as applicable) 115 04. STOWAGE AREAS Sun Visors (if available) 116 Storage Compartment 89 Electric Power Assisted Steering (EPAS) 116 Hooks (if available) 94 Steering Wheel Adjustment

89 Electric Power Assisted Steering (EPAS) 116 Hooks (if available) 94 Steering Wheel Adjustment 417 Tag Holder (if available) 95 Steering Lock And Ignition Switch (if available) 118 Front Seat Back Pockets (if available) 95 Starting And Stopping (without PEPS) 119 Starting And Stopping (PEPS) (if available) 120 05. CLIMATE CONTROL Engine Passive Start - Conditions 121 Air Distribution 97 Engine Passive Stop - Conditions 122 Air Vents 98 Gear Shifting 422 Electronic Temperature Control (etc) (if avail- Reverse Gear 123 98 able) Driving 123 vi  CONTENTS Automated Manual Transmission (AMT) (If fit- 124 Fuses 166 ed) Bulb Specification 71 Starting The Engine 129 24 X 7 Road Assistance 173 Braking 130 Drive Mode kim 08. MAINTENANCE Current Gear Indication 131 Maintenance And Service 177 Gear Recommendation 132 Engine Compartment (MT) 178 Idle Stop Start (iss) (if available) 133 Engine Compartment (AMT) 178 Parking Brake 138 Engine Oil Level 180 Vehicle Parking 139 Brake Fluid Level 181

(AMT) 178 Parking Brake 138 Engine Oil Level 180 Vehicle Parking 139 Brake Fluid Level 181 Reverse Park Assist With Sensor (if available) 140 Engine Coolant Level 181 Rear View Camera (if available) 142 Checking Amt Oil Reservoir Level 182 Windshield Washer Fluid Level 183 07. EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Battery 183 Emergency Equipment 149 Spark Plug (petrol) 185 Spare Wheel Removal Process 151 Tyres 185 In Case Of Flat Tyre 154 Smart Key Battery Replacement (For PEPS 188 Puncture Repair Kit (if available) 155 variant) Jump Starting Your Car 162 On Board Diagnostic (OBD II) System 189 Towing 164 Service Instructions 190 vii  CONTENTS Service Schedule 191 11. WARRANTY - TERMS AND CONDITIONS Vehicle Parking For Long Duration (Non - Use 196 Vehicle Warranty: Terms And Conditions 219 Maintenance) 12. ENVIRONMENT SAFETY 09. TECHNICAL INFORMATION Environmental Safety 221 Fuel Specification 197 Lubricant Specification 198 Technical Specifications 200 Vehicle Dimensions 203 Aggregate

197 Lubricant Specification 198 Technical Specifications 200 Vehicle Dimensions 203 Aggregate Identification Numbers 204 Car Care 205 Fast Tag 207 Value Care - Amc 208 Extended Warranty 212 Value Added Services 214 Vehicle Exterior Enrichment 216 Vehicle Interior Enrichment 217 viii  IMPORTANT INFORMATION In this Owner’s Manual, you will find the text under the heading “WARNING” and “NOTE” which highlights important infor- mation. Pay particular attention to these highlighted messages. @ NOTE Indicates additional information that will assist you in gaining the optimum ben- efit and care for your vehicle. A\ WARNING Indicates procedures or information that must be followed precisely in order to avoid the possibility of severe personal injury and serious damage to the vehi- cle. Safe Driving Safety consciousness not only ensures your safety and the safety of other road users, but it also helps to reduce the wear and tear on your vehicle. Safe driving depends on: * How quickly you make

helps to reduce the wear and tear on your vehicle. Safe driving depends on: * How quickly you make decisions to avoid an accident. + Your ability to concentrate. + How well you can see and judge ob- jects. + How well familiar you are with your ve- hicle controls and its capabilities. * test @ NOTE Fatigue is a result of physical or mental exertion that impairs judgment. Driver fatigue may be due to inadequate sleep, extended work hours, strenuous work or non-work activities or combina- tion of other factors. Take rest at regular intervals. SAFETY Safety Tips + Always take into account the road con- ditions, weather conditions, vehicle speed in order to prevent accidents. + Turn ‘ON’ the side indicators at least 30 meters before taking a turn or changing the lane. + Decelerate to a safe speed before tak- ing turn. Do not apply brakes during cornering. + When overtaking other vehicles, watch out for the oncoming vehicle. + Never drive under the influence of al- cohol or drugs. + If your

out for the oncoming vehicle. + Never drive under the influence of al- cohol or drugs. + If your vehicle is equipped with info- tainment/navigation system, set and make changes to your travel route only when the vehicle is parked. + Program radio presets with the vehicle parked, and use your programmed presets to make radio use quicker and simpler.  SAFETY Driving Through Water Driving on a Rainy Day @ NOTE Do not drive through flooded areas. Judge the depth of water before driving through it. Otherwise, water may enter the vehicle interior or the engine compartment. If at all the situation demands that you have to drive through water then; + Keep engine in higher RPM and crawl the vehicle in low gear. + Flowing or rushing water creates strong forces. Driving through flowing water could cause the vehicle to about trying to drive through flowing water. + Lightly apply the brake pedal to dry the liners until the brakes work normally once you are out of water. A\ WARNING Do not attempt

dry the liners until the brakes work normally once you are out of water. A\ WARNING Do not attempt to start the engine if ve- hicle gets flooded due to water. Tow the vehicle to a safe place. Contact a near- est TATA MOTORS Authorised Service Centre + Check wiper blades, lights and brakes for proper functioning and condition. + Check the tyre treads depth, the con- dition of the tread and tyre. + Avoid harsh braking and sharp turns. It may cause loss of control and lead to a skid. + For slowing down, shift to lower gears and brake gently. + Keep lights ‘ON’ if visibility is poor. Driving on Wet Roads On wet road or during light showers, “Aquaplaning’” can occur. “Aquaplaning” is the loss of direct contact between the road surface and the vehicle’s tires due to a water film forming between them. Steering or braking the vehicle can be very difficult, and loss of control can occur. There is no hard and fast rule about aquaplaning. The best advice is to slow down when the road is wet. If

no hard and fast rule about aquaplaning. The best advice is to slow down when the road is wet. If you have driven for a long time in heavy rain without braking, there may be a delayed reaction from the brakes when braking for the first time. You have to press the brake pedal more firmly. Maintain a greater distance from the ve- hicle in front. Night Driving Ensure that all lights are working and windshield, window glasses are clean. Drive more slowly at night than in the daytime, as the visual range is re- stricted at night. Maintain a speed such that you can stop within illuminated distance of head lamps. Do not use the high beam unless in- evitable. It may dazzle the driver of the oncoming vehicle, thus causing an ac- cident. Use head lamp main/dip beam to alert other road users on turns/ cross roads. Use side indicators for lane change or turning.  Driving on Gradients When climbing gradient, the vehicle may begin to slow down and show a lack of power. If this happens, shift to a

gradient, the vehicle may begin to slow down and show a lack of power. If this happens, shift to a lower gear and apply power smoothly so that there is no loss of traction. When driving down a hill, the engine braking should be used by shifting into a lower gear. Do not drive in neutral gear or switch off the engine. AX WARNING On long and steep gradients you must reduce the load on the brakes by shift- ing early to a lower gear. This allows you to take advantage of the engine braking effect and helps avoid over- heating of service brakes resulting in re- duced braking efficiency. Driving on Highway Stopping distance progressively, in- creases with vehicle speed. Maintain a sufficient distance between your vehicle and the vehicle ahead. For long distance driving, perform safety checks before starting a trip and take rest at certain intervals to prevent fatigue. SAFETY  SAFETY SEAT BELTS This section of user manual describes your vehicle’s seat belt, airbag and Child restraints system.

This section of user manual describes your vehicle’s seat belt, airbag and Child restraints system. Please read and follow all these instructions carefully to minimise risk of severe injury or death. + Seat belts are the primary restraints system in the vehicle. All occupants, including the driver, should always wear their seat belts to minimize the risk of injury. + Sit back and adjust the front seat. Make sure that your seat is adjusted to a good driving position and the back of the seat is upright. Buckling the Shoulder Seat Belt + Grasp the tongue then slowly pull out the seat belt over the shoulder and across the chest. When the seat belt is long enough to fit, insert the tongue into the lock buckle until you hear a “CLICK” which indicates that the seat belt is securely locked. + Position the lap portion of seat belt across your pelvic bone, below your abdomen. To remove slack, pull up a bit on the shoulder seat belt. To loosen the lap portion seat belt if it is too tight, tilt

up a bit on the shoulder seat belt. To loosen the lap portion seat belt if it is too tight, tilt the tongue and pull on the lap seat belt. A snug seat belt reduces the risk of sliding under the seat belt in a colli- sion. Ensure that the seat belt running over the body (shoulder segment and lap segment) does not have any twist. Twisted seat belt may not offer effec- tive protection when required. Releasing the Seat Belt To release the seat belt, push the red but- on on the lock buckle. The seat belt wil automatically retract to its stowed position. f necessary, slide the tongue down the webbing to allow the seat belt to retrac ully. @ NOTE The above image is for reference pur- pose only.  Fixed Rear Centre Lap Seat Belt When buckling, make sure you hear a click confirming that the tab is latched into the seat belt lock. To tighten it, pull the loose end through the buckle until the seat belt is comfortably adjusted around the hips. AX WARNING + Each seating position and seat belt

seat belt is comfortably adjusted around the hips. AX WARNING + Each seating position and seat belt assembly must only be used by one occupant. It is not recommended to put a seat belt around a child, being carried on an occupant's lap. + Be careful not to damage or tamper the seat belt webbing or hardware. Inspect the seat belt system period- ically, checking for cuts, frays, or loose parts. A frayed or torn seat belt could rip apart in a collision and leave you with no protection. + Ifthe seat belt webbing or hardware is damaged, get it replaced immedi- ately at TATA Motors Authorized service centre. + Do not insert any items such as coins, clips, etc. into the seat belt buckles, and be careful not to spill liquids into these parts. If foreign materials get into a seat belt buckle, the seat belt will not work properly. * Do not wear seat belts over hard, sharp or fragile items in clothing, such as pens, keys, spectacles etc. + Donotuse any accessories on seat belts or modify in any

such as pens, keys, spectacles etc. + Donotuse any accessories on seat belts or modify in any way the seat belt system. Devices claiming to im- prove occupant comfort or reposi- tion the seat belt can reduce the protection provided by the seat belt and increase the chance of serious injury in a collision. Seat Belts with Pre-tensioner (if equipped) You can use the pre-tensioner seat belts in the same manner as ordinary seat belts. The seat belt pre-tensioner system works in conjunction with the SUPPLEMENTARY RESTRAINTS SYSTEM (SRS-Airbags). In the event of a collision, as may be nec- SAFETY essary, pre-tensioner tightens the seat belt so that it fits the occupant’s body more snugly. When pre-tensioner activates, there could be some noise and release of smoke. This is normal and there are no health hazards or fire risk. A\ WARNING In a collision, the pre-tensioner seat belt assembly mechanisms becomes hot during activation. Do not touch the pre- tensioner seat belt assemblies for sev-

becomes hot during activation. Do not touch the pre- tensioner seat belt assemblies for sev- eral minutes after they have been activated. If the vehicle has been involved in a colli- sion, get it inspected immediately at au- thorized TATA MOTORS SERVICE Center. Seat Belts With Load Limiter (if equipped) You can use the load limiter seat belts in the same manner as ordinary seat belts. The seat belt load limiter system works in conjunction with the SUPPLEMENTARY RESTRAINTS SYSTEM (SRS-Airbags). 5  SAFETY In the event of a collision, as may be nec- essary, load limiter reduces the load on the rib cage region of the occupant. If the ve- hicle has been involved in a collision, get it inspected immediately at Authorised TATA MOTORS SERVICE Center. Use of Seat Belts for Pregnant Woman A\ WARNING + Pregnant woman must wear a cor- rectly positioned seat belt. It is safer for mother as well as unborn child. + Pregnant woman should wear the lap part of the seat belt across the Pelvic Bone and

unborn child. + Pregnant woman should wear the lap part of the seat belt across the Pelvic Bone and as snug across the hips as possible. Keep the seat belt low so that it does not come across the abdomen. That way the strong bones of the hips will take the force if there is a collision. Seat Belt Warning Lamp EX Ey For Driver For Front seat passenger The seat belt warning lamp reminds you to fasten the seat belt. «If the driver does not fasten seat belt, seat belt reminder lamp will blink and a buzzer will sound for predefined du- ration until the driver seat belt is buck- led. + If front passenger seat is occupied by adult and does not fasten seat belt, seat belt reminder lamp will blink and a buzzer will sound for predefined du- ration until the front passenger seat belt is buckled. + If this system is also provided for other than Front row seats, applicable above warning will appear until seat belts are buckled. + If front passenger seat is occupied by child, system may detect

until seat belts are buckled. + If front passenger seat is occupied by child, system may detect occupancy and warn with front passenger seat belt warning. It is not taken to mean child can occupy front passenger seat and use seat belt. Please refer CRS section for recommended seating po- sition. Using unauthorized after-market seat cover may affect function of occupant sensor. TATA MOTORS does not rec- ommended any non-validated seat cover on seats.  CHILD RESTRAINT SYSTEM (CRS) TATA MOTORS strongly recommends the use of Child Restraint Systems (CRS) for all children up to age of 12 years and to be placed at recommended positions only. Children travelling without recommended CRS and seated at other positions may face serious injuries in case of a collision. CRS can be installed in the vehicle using seat belts and/or ISOFIX only (if equipped) or ISOFIX with Top Tether (if equipped) or ISOFIX with support leg. If the child seat is equipped with support leg(s), always fit the support

ISOFIX with support leg. If the child seat is equipped with support leg(s), always fit the support leg(s) directly to the floor. Never fit support leg(s) to a footrest or on any other object. The harness system of CRS holds the child in place, and in a collision, acts to keep the child positioned in the seat and reduce the risk of injuries. All children below age of two years must always ride in a rear-facing infant CRS. Keep children in a forward-facing CRS with a harness until they reach the size or weight limit allowed by your CRS manu- facturer. Once your child outgrows the forward-fac- ing CRS, your child is ready for a booster seat. Selection and Installation of CRS Always select the CRS that complies with latest safety standards (AISO72 / ECE R44). The CRS are classified according to the child’s size, height and weight. Select the appropriate CRS for your child. Ensure that the CRS is securely installed in the vehicle and subsequently child fits prop- erly in it and wears

the CRS is securely installed in the vehicle and subsequently child fits prop- erly in it and wears harness of CRS. For installation, please refer CRS manufac- turer’s instruction manual. SAFETY ISOfix Hooks J  SAFETY @ NOTE The above images are for reference purpose only.  the Vehicle Matrix The suitability of seat position for carriage of children and recommended category of CRS is shown in the table below as per the child group. X - Seat Position not suitable for children in this age group. U - Suitable for “universal” category re- straints approved for use in this age group. L- Suitable for particular child restraints. These restraints may be of the specific ve- hicle, restricted or semi-universal cate- gories. Universal is a category in the AlS072 / ECE R44 norm. AX WARNING If a child is seated in the front seat it may cause serious injury or even death during any collision. Group Mass Group Age Group Front Passen- ger SAFETY Recommended CRS Position as per Rear Out- Rear Out-

Mass Group Age Group Front Passen- ger SAFETY Recommended CRS Position as per Rear Out- Rear Out- board LH Rear boats Center RH 0 Up to 10 Up to 9 x U U x kg months + Up to13 | Upto 24 x UL UL x kg months 9 months I 9 to 18 kg to 48 xX UL UL xX months I 15 to 25 kg| APPFOX. 3 x U U x to 7 years i |22 to 36 kg], APPTOX: 6 Xx U U Xx 9) to 12 years  SAFETY AX WARNING IT @ NOTE If your vehicle is equipped with a front passenger Airbag (PAB) and does not have PAB deactivation switch, do not in- stall a rear-facing CRS in the front pas- senger seat. If the PAB inflates, a child in a rear facing CRS could be seriously injured or killed. If you install a CRS in the rear seat, slide the front seat far enough forward so that the child’s feet do not touch the front seat- back. This will help avoid injury to the child in the event of a collision. @ NOTE Children could be endangered in a col- lision if their CRS is not properly se- cured in the vehicle. Be sure to secure the child in the restraint

if their CRS is not properly se- cured in the vehicle. Be sure to secure the child in the restraint system accord- ing to the manufacturer’s instructions. 10 Do not use an infant carrier or a child safety seat that “hooks“ over a seat- back, it will not provide adequate pro- tection in a collision. After a collision, we recommend to get seat belts, seats, ISOFIX and top-tether anchorages (as may be applicable) inves- tigated at TATA MOTORS Authorised serv- ice centre. @NOTE CRS in a closed vehicle can become very hot. To prevent burns, check the seating surface and buckles before placing your child in CRS. A\ WARNING + Do not leave unattended children in your vehicle. + Do not modify CRS in any way. Do not install a booster seat or a booster cushion with only the lap strap of the seat belt. Do not install a booster seat or a booster cushion with a seat belt that is slack or twisted. Do not put the safety seat belt under your child’s arm or behind its back. Do not use pillows, books or

put the safety seat belt under your child’s arm or behind its back. Do not use pillows, books or towels to boost your child’s height. Make sure that your children sit in an upright position. Do not allow children to stand up or kneel on either the rear or the front seats. An unrestrained child could suffer serious or fatal injuries during a collision. Do not leave any toys or other ob- jects loose in the CRS or on the seat while the vehicle is in motion.  Each CRS should be used for one child only. If the airbag SRS warning indicator in the instrument cluster illuminates continu- ously, it means that there is malfunction in the system. Remove the CRS from fron passenger seat and contact your TATA MOTORS authorised service center. SAFETY @ NOTE The above images are for reference purpose only. 11  SAFETY SUPPLEMENTARY SYSTEM (SRS) equipped) The airbag ‘SRS’ system comprises of the following components depending upon the provided safety features in your vehicle. RESTRAINT (AIRBAGS) (if +

components depending upon the provided safety features in your vehicle. RESTRAINT (AIRBAGS) (if + Seat belt Pre-tensioners.. + Seat belt with load limiters. + Driver Airbag. + Front Passenger Airbag. + Airbag ‘SRS’ ECU (Electronic Control Unit). * Collision Sensors. + SRS wiring harness. * SRS Warning lamp The System is active when ignition switch is in the “ON” position or the ignition mode is “ON”. Airbags are designed to inflate in collisions when required. In the event of a collision, the collision sensors will detect signals, and if the Airbag ECU judges that the sig- nals represent a severe collision, will trig- ger the airbags. The inflated Airbags 12 provide a cushion to the occupants. The Airbag inflates and deflates so quickly that you may not even realize that it has acti- vated. The Airbag will neither hinder your view nor make it harder to exit the vehicle. Airbag inflation is virtually instantaneous and occurs with considerable force, ac- companied by loud noise and

is virtually instantaneous and occurs with considerable force, ac- companied by loud noise and smoke, which is normal. The inflated airbag, to- gether with seat belts, limit the movement of an occupant, thereby reducing the risk of injury. When an airbag inflates, you may see some smoke-like particles. The particles are a normal by-product of the process that generates the non-toxic gas used for airbag inflation. These airborne particles may irritate the skin, eyes, nose, or throat. If you have skin or eye irritation, rinse the area with water. For nose or throat irrita- tion, move to fresh air. Also sometimes the smoke can cause breathing problems. In such cases, it is recommended to get fresh air promptly. After inflation, airbag provides a gradual cushioning effect for the occupant there- after deflates. It is not advisable to drive your vehicle after the airbags have been deployed. If you are involved in another collision, the airbags will not be in place to protect you. The above

you are involved in another collision, the airbags will not be in place to protect you. The above image is for reference pur- pose only. @ NOTE * Open your windows and doors as soon as possible after collision to re  duce prolonged exposure to the smoke and powder released by the inflating Airbag. Do not touch the Airbag container’s internal components immediately after an Airbag has inflated. The parts that come into contact with an inflating Airbag may be very hot. Always wash exposed skin areas thoroughly with lukewarm water and mild soap. The driver airbag is mounted in the centre of the steering wheel. The front passenger airbag is located inside the dashboard in front of the passenger seat. The vehicle fit- ted with the airbags have suitable indica- tions on steering wheel and on dash board. The word ‘AIRBAG’ is embossed on the airbag covers. A\ WARNING Even in vehicles with Airbags, you and your passengers must always wear the seat belts provided. In order to minimize the risk

you and your passengers must always wear the seat belts provided. In order to minimize the risk and sever- ity of injury in the event of a collision. ALWAYS use seat belts and CRS — during every trip and at all times. Even with airbags, you can be seri- ously injured or killed in a collision if you are not wearing seat belt prop- erly or not wearing seat belt when airbag inflates. You and your passengers should never sit or lean unnecessarily close to the Airbags. Move your seat as far back as pos- sible from front Airbags, while still maintaining control of the vehicle. All occupants should sit upright with the seatback in an upright position, centred on the seat cushion with their seat belt on, legs comfortably extended and their feet on the floor until the vehicle is parked and the engine is turned off. If an occupant is out of position dur- ing collision, the rapidly deploying Airbag may forcefully contact the SAFETY occupant causing serious or fatal in- juries. Do not allow the

may forcefully contact the SAFETY occupant causing serious or fatal in- juries. Do not allow the front passenger to place their feet or legs on the dash- board. Not Recommended Seating Position 13   @ NOTE All images are for reference purpose only. A\ WARNING Never place your arm over the airbag as a deploying airbag can re- sult in serious arm fractures or other injuries. Do not place or stick any item/s in the vehicle, except at designated lo- cations (such as utility bins, cup/bot- tle holders, Boot space etc). Loose items may act as a projectile during a collision and cause severe to fatal injuries. Please be aware that any unse- cured item in your vehicle, such as your pet, unsecured CRS or a lap- top, can become a potential hazard in the event of a collision or sudden stop, causing injuries to occupants in the vehicle. Coat hooks (if provided), must be used only for that purpose. Never hang heavy items on to those hooks. This may lead to severe to fatal injuries. ALWAYS contact

Never hang heavy items on to those hooks. This may lead to severe to fatal injuries. ALWAYS contact your TATA MO- TORS authorised service centre if the vehicle is damaged, even if airbag has not inflated. ALWAYS contact your TATA MO- TORS authorised service centre if any part of an airbag module cover shows sign of cracking or damage. SAFETY The SRS warning lamp stays ‘ON’ after illuminating The SRS warning lamp comes “ON’/stays ‘ON’ while the vehicle is in motion. The SRS warning lamp blinks when the engine is running. We recommend the customer to imme- diately visit TATA MOTORS authorised service centre and get the SRS system inspected if any of the above conditions occur. A\ WARNING AX WARNING If your SRS malfunctions, the Airbag may not inflate properly during a colli- sion thereby increasing risk of serious injury or death. If any of the following conditions occur, your SRS is mal-func- tioning: The SRS warning lamp does not turn ‘ON’ when the ignition switch is placed in the

tioning: The SRS warning lamp does not turn ‘ON’ when the ignition switch is placed in the ‘ON’ position for few seconds. Never make any modifications to your vehicle. The modifications car- ried out, but not limited to the vehi- cle frame, bumpers, front fenders, ride height, suspension, seat belts, interior trims, steering wheel (espe- cially holders), are not acceptable. This will affect the intended perform- ance of SRS system. 15  SAFETY 16 Fitment of bull bars is strictly prohib- ited, unless authorised by TATA MO- TORS. This will affect the intended performance of SRS system. If you need to make any modifica- tions to accommodate any disability you may have, please contact your Authorized TATA MOTORS Dealer for necessary guidance. Do not tamper with SRS in any way. This will lead to unexpected per- formance of system and may cause serious injury or death. Airbag Warning Sticker on Front Pas- senger Sun Visor AIRBAG| & The Airbag Warning Symbol on sun visor reminds extreme

on Front Pas- senger Sun Visor AIRBAG| & The Airbag Warning Symbol on sun visor reminds extreme hazards associated with he use of rearward-facing child restraint on front passenger seat during airbag de- ployment. it is not taken to mean child can occupy ront passenger seat and use seat belt. Please refer CRS section for recom- mended seating position. AX WARNING Never use a rearward facing child re- straint on a seat protected by an active Airbag in front of it, Death or serious in- jury to the child can occur.  Airbags Deployment Conditions When front airbags (if equipped) should not deploy? Minor frontal collision: Seat belt (if worn) offers adequate occupant protection in low severity collisions. The airbags are trig- gered only when there is a collision severe enough to trigger the airbags. Deployment of frontal airbags is not beneficial in low severity collisions. Side collision: During a side collision, oc- cupants tend to move sideways. There- ore, deploying frontal airbags in

a side collision, oc- cupants tend to move sideways. There- ore, deploying frontal airbags in such situations will not benefit the occupants. Rear collision: During a rear collision, oc- cupants tend to move (rearwards) away rom frontal airbags. Therefore, deploying rontal airbags in such situations will not benefit the occupant protection. Head re- straints and seat belts provide occupant protection during a rear collision. Rollovers collision: During a rollover col- ision, unbelted occupants may float inside the passenger compartment. This will in- crease the risk of injuries and may prove to be fatal. Wearing seat belts provide highly effective occupant protection during rollover collision. Front airbags are not de- signed to deploy in a rollover as frontal airbags cannot offer any protection in rollover collision. When front airbags deploy with minor or no visible vehicle damage? The airbags are triggered only when there is a collision severe enough to trigger the airbags. The

The airbags are triggered only when there is a collision severe enough to trigger the airbags. The extent of vehicle damage is not always the correct indicator for airbag deployment. In some extreme/rare condi- tions; of rough road driving, running into a curb or hitting other fixed objects; the airbags may deploy depending upon the severity of collision. In some of these con- ditions, damage to the vehicle may be minor or not be readily visible. When front airbags not deploy, even with exterior visible vehicle damage? The airbags are triggered only when there is a collision severe enough to trigger the airbags. The amount of visible vehicle damage is not always the correct indicator for airbag deployment. Some collisions can result in visible damage but no airbag SAFETY deployment because the airbags would not have been needed or would not have provided protection even if they had de- ployed. Seat belts, if worn, offer adequate occu- pant protection in such cases. 17  SAFETY ome ees

ployed. Seat belts, if worn, offer adequate occu- pant protection in such cases. 17  SAFETY ome ees Wr eauippe’) + Lift the lock lever upward to deacti- vate the childproof lock when not re- quired. + Child safety lever to be used for safety of child for preventing them to open rear door while seating in pas- senger seat to avoid accident while vehicle is running. Both the rear doors of the vehicle are pro- vided with a child proof lock. Push the lock lever located on vertical face of the door downward before closing the door. The door which has been locked by activating the child lock cannot be opened from in- side, it can be opened only from the out- side. 18  ANTI-THEFT DEVICE IMMOBILIZER | PEPS Immobilizer system is designed to pre-vent vehicle theft by electronically disabling the engine ignition system. The engine can be started only with vehicle’s original Immobi- lizer ignition key which has an electronic identification programmed code. @ NOTE Use only Flip key, the other

key which has an electronic identification programmed code. @ NOTE Use only Flip key, the other should be kept in a safe location. Note down “key Tag no.” information (and keep it safe) which is required while getting new/spare keys. Remember that it is not possible to prepare new/spare keys without the “key Tag number.” Take pre- caution about Flip key, as without Flip key vehicle cannot be started. Vehicle Condition gni ion OFF Immobilizer Lamp Sta- tus Vehicle State Blinking Locked SAFETY Meaning / Function Of The State Vehicle Immobilized and awaiting electronic key ignition ON OFF Unlocked Normal condition and ready to start the vehi- cle ignition ON ON Locked + Problem with key (Wrong key used to start vehicle) + Problem with Immobilizer system. Con- tact a TATA MOTORS Authorized Serv- ice Centre. ignition ON Blinking Unlocked Contact a TATA MOTORS Authorized Serv- ice Centre immediately. 19  SAFETY ANTI-LOCK BRAKING SYSTEM (ABS) ABS regulates brake pres- sure in such a way that

19  SAFETY ANTI-LOCK BRAKING SYSTEM (ABS) ABS regulates brake pres- sure in such a way that the (6) wheels do not lock when you brake. This allows you to continue steering the vehicle when braking. The ABS warning lamp in the instrument cluster lights up when the ignition is switched on. It goes out when the engine is running. A\ WARNING - If ABS is faulty, the wheels could lock when braking. The steer ability and braking characteristics may be severely impaired. There is an increased danger of skidding and accidents. + Drive on carefully. Have ABS checked immediately at a TATA MO- TORS Authorized Service Centre as soon as possible. While Braking + If ABS intervenes: continue to press the brake pedal vigorously until the braking situation is over. * To make a full brake application: press the brake pedal with full force. If ABS intervenes when braking, you will feel a pulsing in the brake pedal. The pul- sating brake pedal can be an indication of hazardous road conditions, and

the brake pedal. The pul- sating brake pedal can be an indication of hazardous road conditions, and functions as a reminder to take extra care while driv- ing. A\ WARNING + The stopping distance required for vehicles with ABS may be slightly more than conventional brake sys- tem but ABS will still offer the advan- tage of helping you maintain directional control. * However, remember that ABS will not compensate for bad road or weather conditions or poor driver judgment. Drive within safety mar- gins taking into consideration into consideration prevailing weather and traffic conditions. 20  ELECTRONIC BRAKE FORCE DIS- TRIBUTION (EBD) EBD monitors and controls the (@)) brake pressure on the rear wheels to improve driving stability while braking. EBD provides optimal braking pressure distribution between front and rear wheels to optimize braking distance and to ensure vehicle stability by means of lowering braking pressure increase at rear wheels. AX WARNING - If EBD is malfunctioning,

means of lowering braking pressure increase at rear wheels. AX WARNING - If EBD is malfunctioning, the rear wheels can lock, e.g. under full braking. This increases the risk of skidding and an accident. * You should therefore adapt your driving style to the different handling characteristics. Have the brake sys- tem checked immediately at a TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Cen- tre as soon as possible. BRAKE SWAY CONTROL (BSC) Detects tendency of instability during Brak- ing in ABS-alone vehicles by monitoring in- dividual wheel. Enhances vehicle stability by controlling braking pressure on individual wheels dur- ing partial braking. Braking > SAFETY STUCK MODE RECOVERY (TRAC- TION PRO) (if applicable) Traction Pro mode helps the driver to get the vehicle moving if one of the front wheels is continuously spinning because of low grip from the road surface. This sit- uation may arise due to road undulation, snow, mud, or any low friction surface. These situations are automatically identi-

road undulation, snow, mud, or any low friction surface. These situations are automatically identi- fied by ABS driven Traction Pro mode and pop-up windows on the infotainment sys- tem support the driver. Driver can activate the Traction pro mode and take the vehicle out of the stuck situ- ation without any external assistance. Once activated, the driver will be guided of further steps via the infotainment unit itself. Traction pro mode can be used only in the forward direction and cannot be used if both front wheels are spinning. A\ CAUTION + Please use Traction Pro Mode cau- tiously in extreme conditions where vehicle digs deep into the ground 21  SAFETY which can cause vehicle body to touch the ground. * During activation of Traction Pro Mode, service brake may not deliver normal braking performance at very low speed. In case vehicle rolls back on slope please be ready to use hand brake. * Do not press brake and accelerator pedal together except where Trac- tion Pro Mode is

hand brake. * Do not press brake and accelerator pedal together except where Trac- tion Pro Mode is activated If vehicle is stuck with one wheel continu- ously spinning, you will receive the notifi- cation pop up (in below image) to activate he Traction Pro Mode. OW #7 2B fad)” no 2 atin Mess Wheel Stuck Detected! Do you want to activate Traction Pro Mode? In case you select “yes”, Traction Pro Mode will be activated and you can follow he instructions to take the vehicle out of stuck situation Traction Pro Mode Activated st um Brake Accel Please press the brake pedal with the left foot and accelerate shawty with the right foot Deactivate If vehicle comes out of stuck situation, no- ification pop up as seen in below image. 0 Traction Pro Mode activation was successful xo —carr Also, you can deactivate Traction Pro Mode at any point of time of activation by pressing deactivate button which results in notification pop up as seen in the below image. safarnama — & wal 09:30AM hfe SAlernama

results in notification pop up as seen in the below image. safarnama — & wal 09:30AM hfe SAlernama Traction Pro Mode Deactivated ‘Android — Apple to CarPlay n case there is any system temperature high is identified during the operation of Traction Pro Mode, Traction Pro Mode will be disabled temporarily for around 2 min- utes.  4 il 09:30AM td 7 Break Time! A Traction Pro Mode will be enabled again after 2 minutes Ok if the terrain is beyond physical limit of the Traction Pro Mode, notification pop up as described in below image will be displayed on the infotainment system. Please take external aid to tow the car in this situation. Traction Pro Mode Deactivated Traction Pro Mode cannot help here! Please tow the car SAFETY 23  24  KEYS A key is an electronic access and authori- zation system available as a standard fea- ture with your vehicle. Unlocking Principle The transponder in the ignition key carries a Unique Identification Code (UID). The vehicle unlocks when the code on the key

key carries a Unique Identification Code (UID). The vehicle unlocks when the code on the key matches with the code on the Engine Man- agement Sys-tem (EMS). In case of PEPS variant, Immobilizer function is provided by PEPS ECU. Engine Starting When the key is inserted and the ignition is switched to ‘ON’, all codes are commu- nicated within key, Immobilizer and EMS. The engine will start only if all the codes match. Loss Of Keys If one of the keys is lost, Contact the TATA MOTORS Authorized Dealer/Service Cen- ter immediately. AX WARNING * Do not turn ‘ON’ ignition switch by using key with any type of metal wound around its grip or in contact with it. This may be detected as ab- normal condition by immobilizer and prevent engine from starting. + Donotleave the key in high temper- ature areas. The transponder in it will behave abnormally when reused. + Do not try to start the vehicle when the Immobilizer indicator lamp on the instrument cluster is glowing. In this condition the vehicle

the Immobilizer indicator lamp on the instrument cluster is glowing. In this condition the vehicle will not start and the vehicle’s battery will also be drained due to frequent cranking. OPENING AND CLOSING 25  OPENING AND CLOSING Types Of Key Sn Name Remote Key Description . 1. Locking all doors 1 Mechanical key 2. Unlocking all doors Locking all doors 2 smart Key (PEPS) Approach light mart Ke y Tail gate opening PONS Unlocking all doors Unlock Approach Light /follow me Lock Key blade in / out button 3 Flip Key PONS 26  SMART KEY (if available) Keep the smart key with user to perform the passive access. It is used for locking, unlocking and starting the vehicle. 1. Locking all doors 2. Approach Light 3. Tail gate opening 4. Unlocking all doors Locking All Doors Press the lock button once (1) to lock all the doors of the vehicle. Successful lock will be indicated by two flashes of turn signal indicators. Approach Light This feature helps to find and reach the parked vehicle. When you

signal indicators. Approach Light This feature helps to find and reach the parked vehicle. When you press approach light button (2) once, position lamps or low beam and po- sition lamps will turn ‘ON’. To switch ‘OFF’ the approach lights, press and release the same button or it automat- ically turns ‘OFF’ after certain time. Tail Gate Opening Press the tail gate opening button once (3) to unlock the tailgate. OPENING AND CLOSING Unlocking All Doors Press the unlock button once (4) to unlock all the doors. Successful unlock will be indicated by one flashes of turn signal indicators. @ NOTE If smart key battery is low/drained or ve- hicle battery is low/drained, user can unlock and enter into vehicle by using mechanical key blade, which is present inside the smart key. 27  OPENING AND CLOSING Key Blade In/out Slide the knob (1) to release the key. Pul he key blade (2) out. 28 SMART KEY FEATURES Force Panic ON Operation When vehicle is in OFF condition, if we press lock button and unlock

Force Panic ON Operation When vehicle is in OFF condition, if we press lock button and unlock button simul- taneously, Force panic operation gets ac- tivated. In this case, turn indicators of vehicle start flashing and horn will blow au- tomatically. Force Panic OFF Operation By pressing any button of smart key, Force panic operation gets deactivated. Vehicle Search In vehicle locked condition, if lock button on smart key is pressed, the turn indica- tors of vehicle flashes 4 times. Automatic Activation Of Immobilizer If smart key is not found within the passen- ger compartment, engine will be immobi- lized and vehicle cannot start. Auto Locking / Unlocking Of Doors / Auto Relock In PEPS variants, door will get unlocked when ignition is OFF by pressing Start Stop switch. Anti-grab / Anti-scan Coding The remote control set of this security sys- tem is protected against the use of devices called ‘scanners’ and ‘grabbers’ which can record and reproduce some types of re- mote codes.

called ‘scanners’ and ‘grabbers’ which can record and reproduce some types of re- mote codes. Important + Don’t operate Unlock button of remote in the vicinity of your vehicle, as it could lead to an unintentional unlock- ing your vehicle. + For battery, replacement procedure refer ‘MAINTENANCE’ section. * Do not remove the battery connection of the vehicle while the vehicle has been locked by remote. Smart Key Precautions 1. If smart key is close to radio transmitter such as radio station or an airport which can interfere with normal opera- tion of the transmitter. 2. |f smart key is near a mobile two way radio system or a cellular phone, then it will not work properly. 3. If another vehicle’s smart key is being  operated close to your vehicle, signal will fluctuate. AX WARNING Keep smart key away from electromag- netic materials that blocks electromag- netic waves to the key surface. FLIP KEY 1. Unlock 2. Approach Light /follow me/trunk lid 3. Lock 4. Key blade in / out button 1.

FLIP KEY 1. Unlock 2. Approach Light /follow me/trunk lid 3. Lock 4. Key blade in / out button 1. Unlocking All Doors To unlock all doors, press unlock push-but- ton (1) once. Unlocking will be confirmed by single flash of turn indicators. 2. Approach Light / Follow Me Press approach light button (2) once, low beam, park and roof lamp will turn ‘ON’ for OPENING AND CLOSING 60 seconds (default setting). This feature helps to find and reach the parked vehicle or to reach home in dark/ cloudy condition after parking. Red LED will be flashed on the remote. To switch ‘OFF’ the approach lights, press and release the same button or it automatically turns ‘OFF’ after 60 sec- onds. Tail Gate Opening (if equipped) Electric Tail gate opening can be done through long press (4 sec) approach light button on remote key. 3. Locking All Doors To lock all doors, press lock push-button (3) once. Locking will be con-firmed by two flashes of turn indicators. If lock button is pressed on the remote key

will be con-firmed by two flashes of turn indicators. If lock button is pressed on the remote key with the driver door open, locking-unlock- ing takes place with audible warning sound. If any other door is open, the vehi- cle gets locked but indicators do not flash. 4. Folding Key Blade In / Out Press button (4) to flip out the key blade. For folding, press the button (4) and fold the key blade inside. 29  OPENING AND CLOSING PRESS Key Blade should not be folded without pressing the button. Also, it should not be forced in any direction apart from folding direction to avoid damage to Flip Mechanism. Manual Operation Of Central Door Locking / Unlocking All doors can be locked / unlocked operat- ing driver door using either key blade from outside or knob from inside. 30 FLIP KEY FEATURES Vehicle Search In vehicle locked condition if lock button on remote key is pressed the turn indicators of vehicle flashes 4 times. Force Panic ON Operation Force Panic ON operation When vehicle is in

of vehicle flashes 4 times. Force Panic ON Operation Force Panic ON operation When vehicle is in OFF condition, if we press lock button and unlock button simultaneously, Force panic operation gets activated. In this case, turn indicators of vehicle start flash- ing and horn will blow automatically. Force Panic OFF operation. Force Panic OFF Operation By pressing any button of flip key, Force panic operation gets deactivated Automatic Activation Of Immobilizer If key is removed from ignition, the engine will be immobilized automatically even if you forget to lock the vehicle. Auto Locking / Unlocking Of Doors / Auto Relock Vehicle doors get automatically locked when all doors are closed and the vehicle speed crosses 10 kmph. When ignition key is taken out all the doors get automatically unlocked. Also, when unlocked with remote key and if no door is opened within 30 seconds, ve- hicle doors get automatically locked. Anti-grab / Anti-scan Coding The remote control set of this security

get automatically locked. Anti-grab / Anti-scan Coding The remote control set of this security sys- tem is protected against the use of devices called ‘scanners’ and ‘grabbers’ which can record and reproduce some types of re- mote codes. Important Don’t operate Unlock push-button of re- mote while in the vicinity of your vehicle, as it could lead to an unintentional unlock- ing your vehicle. Don’t use discharged batteries in remote, as it could damage the remote. For battery replacement procedure refer maintenance section. Don’t remove the battery connection of the vehicle while the vehicle has been locked by remote.  DOORS Door Lock And Unlock With Key (if available) The front doors can be locked or un- locked from outside using the key blade. nsert the key in the slot and turn it clock- wise to lock and anticlockwise to unlock the door. Door Locking And Unlocking Using Door Handle Switch (DHS) To lock/unlock all the doors without oper- ating smart key button/ key blade. Press the

(DHS) To lock/unlock all the doors without oper- ating smart key button/ key blade. Press the door handle switch (DHS) provided on the driver door to lock/unlock all the four doors including Tail gate. L) NOTE + Authentication range for smart key ranges from 1 to 1.5 meters from outside the respective door or tail gate. OPENING AND CLOSING + Passive entry works only when igni- tion is off. Rear Door Opening Door opening handle is provided on the side of the window. To open the door, press the lever provided inside the handle and pull. 31  OPENING AND CLOSING Locking Without A Key From Inside All the doors can also be locked from in- side by pressing lever on driver door and independently on other doors respectively. 32 Opening The Doors From Inside All doors can be opened from inside. To open, pull the door opening lever. All doors can be unlocked by pulling the inside re- lease lever to the intermediate position. When it is further articulated will unlatch he door and can be opened.

the intermediate position. When it is further articulated will unlatch he door and can be opened. WINDOWS Power Windows (if available) Front Window Winding Switch (Left) Front Window Winding Switch (Right) Rear Window Winding Switch (Left) Rear Window Winding Switch (Right) . Inhibit Switch Ak ONSa Window glasses on all four doors can be operated by switches provided on the main control panel located on the driver’s arm rest. They work only when the key is in the ‘IGN ON’ position.  @ NOTE Power windows can be operated for 30 seconds in ‘IGN OFF’ and ‘KEY OUT’ positions, provided the doors are closed. Express Down (if available) Window glasses can be opened by a sin- gle long press of the switch. Express down feature is provided for the driver’s door only. Individual Switches Individual window winding switches have been provided on the front passenger and rear doors. Ee Glasses are wound up or down by pulling or pressing the switch. OPENING AND CLOSING WARNING While raising the glass,

up or down by pulling or pressing the switch. OPENING AND CLOSING WARNING While raising the glass, take care to avoid fingers/hands getting trapped be- tween glass and the door frame. Inhibit Switch Inhibit Switch ON When switch is pressed, Amber light turns ‘ON’. The individual switches provided on rear front passenger and door 33  OPENING AND CLOSING cannot be operated. However, it can be operated from the switches on driver’s arm rest Inhibit Switch OFF When switch is pressed, fj Amber light turns ‘OFF’. Fr The individual switches | /{_ provided on rear and front passenger door can be operated. It can also be operated from the switches on driver’s arm rest. . A\ WARNING + If children operate the windows they could be get trapped, particularly if they are left unsupervised. There is a risk of injury. * Activate the window inhibit feature when children are travel-ling. When leaving the vehicle, always take the key with you and lock the vehicle. Never leave children unsupervised in

vehicle, always take the key with you and lock the vehicle. Never leave children unsupervised in the vehicle. 34 Manual Window Winding (if available) Use window winder handle for lowering or raising up window glasses manually where power windows are not provided. Opening The Bonnet Make sure that the engine is switched off and vehicle is in neutral gear with the parking brake applied. . Pull the bonnet release lever. The bon- net will pop up slightly.  For AMT 3. Lift the bonnet slightly and with your finger and slide the secondary lock lever located under the center of the bonnet Make sure that the wiper arms are not raised and not operate before you lift up the bonnet to avoid damaging the wiper arms and the bonnet. 4. Lift the bonnet up. Pull the bonnet stay rod from its clip and put the free end into the slot provided on frame. OPENING AND CLOSING A\ WARNING * The stay rod can be hot enough to burn your finger right after driving. Touch the rod after it becomes cool enough. + Put

enough to burn your finger right after driving. Touch the rod after it becomes cool enough. + Put the stay rod into the hole cor- rectly. If the rod drops off, your body may be caught below the bonnet. + Deactivate the Idle Stop Start (ISS) function for any operation to be per- formed in the Engine compartment. 35  OPENING AND CLOSING Closing TAIL GATE OPENING switch within 30 seconds to open it. 1. To close the bonnet, hold the bon-net by one hand, disengage the stay rod @ NOTE Option Il and clamp it back properly. Some variants may have multiple op- 2. Lower the bonnet close to the bumper, tions. then let it drop down. . Option | A\ WARNING Make sure that the bonnet is correctly locked or it can fly up unexpectedly when you drive. if the vehicle is locked, tail gate is closed and tail gate DHS switch is pressed with valid smart key in the authentication range the tail gate gets unlatched. To release the tailgate, press the tail gate button on the remote. On closing the tail gate

To release the tailgate, press the tail gate button on the remote. On closing the tail gate door, it gets locked. While closing the tail gate, if doors are in locked condition and valid smart key is in- side the trunk, then tail gate gets unlocked. NOTE Press the tail gate button on smart key and press the tail gate door handle 36  @ NOTE + Once tail gate is opened, it will not get locked automatically with other doors. + If the doors are unlocked, the tail gate can be unlocked via tail gate handle switch without smart key. + Do not keep the smart key in the boot when you close the tail gate. A\ WARNING 1. Open driver door using mechanical key. 2. Open the rear door. 3. Fold the rear seat. Tail gate can’t be locked using mechan- ical key/ flip key/ smart key. It has to be locked by slamming it. Option III 4. And access the tailgate opening lever Emergency Tailgate Opening from inside. In emergency situation like key or vehicle Turn the lever clockwise to unlatch and battery is

In emergency situation like key or vehicle Turn the lever clockwise to unlatch and battery is discharged or electrical malfunc- open the tailgate. tioning, you can unlock the tailgate from in- side as per procedure given below: @ NOTE This can be used in emergency situa- tion when you are inside the vehicle. a OPENING AND CLOSING FUEL LID To release the fuel flap, pull the lever lo- cated at the right hand side below the driver seat. For opening, open the fuel cap, turn it counter clockwise. For closing, turn the fuel cap clockwise and gently push the fuel flap till it gets locked. 37  OPENING AND CLOSING WARNING 38 Fuel vapor is extremely hazardous. Always switch ‘OFF’ the engine be- fore refueling and never refill near sparks or open flames. Do not use cell phone when you fill fuel. Do not continue adding fuel after the automatic shut ‘OFF’ function is op- erated if it is equipped on the fuel station. Overfilling the fuel tank could damage the fuel system. NOTE . To fill up the

on the fuel station. Overfilling the fuel tank could damage the fuel system. NOTE . To fill up the fuel, the Engine must be stopped by turning OFF the Igni- tion Key / Start-Stop button. If the Engine is in Idle Stop Start (ISS) mode, it may restart automatically while filling the fuel. Remove the fuel filler cap slowly, and wait for any hissing to stop. The fuel may be under pressure and may spray out. If fuel cap needs replacement, make sure that it is replaced by a genuine cap at the TATA MOTORS author- ized service center.  COCKPIT DASHBOARD AND FEATURES A.C. Air vent Airbag (PAB) Infotainment Display (if available) Steering controls (if available) Instrument Cluster Combi-Switch Horn pad OO] N} | om) &} Ww] mM] = Fascia switch (if available) Driver side Utility pocket Start - Stop switch (if available) Airbag (DAB) Controls Foot Rest USB Port Parking Brake Lever Glove box Gear shift lever ETC / FATC (as available) Hazard Warning switch Center air vent 39  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES

lever ETC / FATC (as available) Hazard Warning switch Center air vent 39  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES INSTRUMENT CLUSTER (TFT Screen) Driver Tachometer Information Display Speedometer % NOVY 2228, eC 678 Yy wu Ps N = e: E Pow N Temperature Gauge Fuel Gauge NOTE: All indicators shown may not be applicable to your vehicle. 40  Speedometer Vit WITT p, x 100 420 N30 140 Arey 6 Speedometer indicates the vehicle speed in kmph. At every key IN and ignition ON, the In- strument Cluster needles and gauges move to max. and return to ‘0‘ position. This is a welcome strategy and a self- check feature. Tachometer eee yy, rpm X 1000 = “Ty, < ™~ _— ~ _ - a a “¢ Tachometer indicates engine speed in rev- olutions per min (rpm). WARNING Do not drive the vehicle with a high en- gine rpm. This may cause damage to the engine and reduce its life. Fuel Gauge When the ignition switch is in “ON” posi- tion, fuel gauge gives an approximate in- DASHBOARD AND FEATURES dication of the amount of fuel in the fuel tank.

gives an approximate in- DASHBOARD AND FEATURES dication of the amount of fuel in the fuel tank. In indication window, “F” stands for full and “E” stands for empty. When fuel in the tank nears empty, low fuel warning tell-tale light glows. Fill fuel as soon as possible. NOTE * Do a check of the fuel level when the vehicle is stationary on a level road. + The fuel level displayed can vary when you drive on inclines, curves, aA  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES brake and accelerate suddenly. This is due to the movement of fuel in the tank. The low fuel warning lamp may turn to ON or OFF earlier or later than usual. A\ WARNING If there is any defect in the system, Low fuel warning symbol will blink. Take your vehicle to the nearest TATA MOTORS Authorized Dealer/Service Center. Temperature Gauge When the ignition switch is in the “ON” po- sition, this gauge indicates the engine coolant temperature. ——— H-| The indicator should be within the normal, acceptable temperature range i.e. be- tween “H”

——— H-| The indicator should be within the normal, acceptable temperature range i.e. be- tween “H” and “C”. If the indicator ap- proaches “H”, overheating is indicated by a RED progress bar. If the coolant temperature is very high, the 42 engine coolant temperature tell-tale light flashes and you will hear an audio warn- ing. In this case, stop the vehicle, switch the engine ‘OFF’ and allow it to cool down for some time. Contact the nearest TATA MOTORS Authorized service centre im- mediately for rectification. A\ WARNING The red progress bar indicates over heating due to high coolant temperature that may damage the engine. If you continue to drive the vehicle in this case, it can result in severe engine damage or even fire.  Driver Information System DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Odometer opo 1903 4am This indicates distance travelled by the vehicle. The odometer reading does not return to “0” when maximum value is reached; the display will freeze the maximum value. Trip meter A&B ase Ueber

when maximum value is reached; the display will freeze the maximum value. Trip meter A&B ase Ueber he ee Beast har The trip meter can be used to measure the distance trav- elled on short trips or between fuel stops. It can be reset to “0”. The trip meter reading becomes “0.0” after it crosses 9999.9 km. Clock Indicates current time in AM/PM mode. Clock time can be changed using steering wheel switches on the steering wheel. Whenever the battery terminals or related fuses are con- nected, you must reset the clock time. This feature is available when ignition switch is in ‘ON’ position. NOTE: Clock settings can also be changed through info- tainment system. For more information, refer infotainment manual. Service reminder This indicates how many days/kilometres are left till serv- ice is due. If service is overdue, it will display “O” km or “0” days and a spanner symbol will blink every time ignition is ON for a few seconds. Never reset the display between 23  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES

time ignition is ON for a few seconds. Never reset the display between 23  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES service intervals as it may give incorrect readings. The in- formation is retained in the service interval display even after the vehicle battery is disconnected. NOTE: This option is for indicative purpose only. Keep track of your odometer reading and follow the mainte- nance schedule. Door Ajar Respective door open display pop up come for few sec and then telltale with respective door open shall be dis- played. Current gear position (indicator) Current gear engaged by the transmission shall be dis- played on DIS. NOTE: If “F’ is displayed it means a defect in the system is detected Contact the nearest TATA MOTORS Author- ized service centre immediately to rectify the problem. In case of a manual transmission, the gear number will be displayed when the clutch is fully released. Gear Recommenda- tion Up or down arrow will be displayed on DIS to shift a gear up or down. No arrow shall be

tion Up or down arrow will be displayed on DIS to shift a gear up or down. No arrow shall be displayed when the selected gear is as per the Vehicle dynamics. 44  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Night time IIlumina- tion control Dashboard Illumination in Night time can be controlled in 5 steps as per user’s convenience using SET and MODE button. Refer settings flow. Drive Mode (AMT) Applicable to AMT variant of the vehicle. “M” indicates Manual Drive mode. “A” indicated Automatic Drive mode. 45  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Instantaneous Fuel Economy (IFE) To reach the Instant Fuel Economy in the Instrument cluster. Press the but- ton on the RHS of the steering wheel. IFE display does not show Fuel Economy of last drive. The display does not show actual value unless vehicle is moving. The indication on the display screen may be delayed if fuel consumption is affected by driving pattern. IFE will vary frequently as per driving pattern. 46 Power And Torque 9:32 AM Sunn Raha Hai Na $ Aashiqui 2 ® Power

as per driving pattern. 46 Power And Torque 9:32 AM Sunn Raha Hai Na $ Aashiqui 2 ® Power Torque Indicates the value of Power and Torque delivered by engine in the particular driv- ing condition. Average Fuel Economy (AFE) p Sunn Ra E % Aashiqui 2 03:15 69 km/t — 17.2 km/| 0 TripB 265.3km 110 km/! Trip B AFE value is an estimate of fuel economy. It may vary significantly based upon driv- ing conditions, driving habits and condition of the vehicle. To see the average fuel economy in the in- strument cluster, press the switch on the RHS of the steering wheel. Trip time, Average speed and Trip distance will reset to ‘0’ when respective Trip meter is reset.  tons on RHS of the steering wheel. DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Setting Screen @ NOTE Average Fuel Economy, Trip time and Average speed will get reset to ‘0’ when Battery is removed and refitted. Average Fuel Economy will be dis- played as —.—‘for initial 0.5 km of re- spective trip. Once 0.5 km distance is covered, Average Fuel Economy

—.—‘for initial 0.5 km of re- spective trip. Once 0.5 km distance is covered, Average Fuel Economy will be displayed. Even after 0.5 km distance covered for particular trip, if Average Fuel Economy is displayed as —.—’‘, then take your vehicle to TATA MOTORS Authorized Dealer/Service Center. Distance To Empty (DTE) 2NnC Le or The above DTE screen indicates an ap- proximate distance in ‘km’ that your vehi- cle can travel with available fuel in tank. To reach the Distance to Empty in the In- DTE values may vary significantly based on driving conditions, driving habits, and condition of the vehicle. It is an estimate value of the available driving distance. If low fuel warning light glows, fill the fuel tank immediately regardless of the DTE figure. @ NOTE + If DTE is displayed as —-', then take your vehicle to the TATA MO- TORS Authorized Dealer/Service Center. + The DTE will update with a new value when fuel is added for more than 7 litres at a time. Infotainment Information On Instru-

new value when fuel is added for more than 7 litres at a time. Infotainment Information On Instru- ment Cluster Display Unit The instrument cluster will display informa- tion like media, navigation and FM. 230C FM Gy) ® 87.5 kHz x Settings =) User can enter into setting by pressing se- lect button while being in setting screen. strument cluster. Press the but- a7  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES 12:29AM Settings Py => uninaten F wr Clock ODO 6810 km To change the option by pressing button on RHS of the steering wheel. NOTE In the Setting menu if there is no user input for 10 sec the previous screen Shall be displayed. Illumination Screen User can select illumination setting by scroll down & pressing set button on the RHS of the steering wheel. 48 Illumination 100% 0 ee | (0 To increase the illumination from 20% to 100% in five steps by pressing button on RHS of the steering wheel. To decrease the illumination from 100% to 20% in five steps by pressing Il button on RHS of the steering wheel.

the illumination from 100% to 20% in five steps by pressing Il button on RHS of the steering wheel. Illumination setting If parking lamp is OFF, the option is greyed out and can not be selectable Illuminated Key Ring When the vehicle is unlocked, the illumi- nated key ring glows up. This helps to lo- cate ignition switch in the dark. Outside Ambient Temperature — 280km 5 110: This displays outside ambient temperature reading with an accuracy of +1 °C. The temperature sensor is located at the front bumper. Therefore the temperature reading can be affected by heat reflection from the road surface, engine heat and the exhaust from surrounding traffic. If outside temperature falls below -1°C, a “snowflake” symbol appears beside the  outside temperature reading. @ NOTE For an accurate temperature reading, make sure the vehicle speed is above 30 kmph. AX WARNING If display shows OAT temp as “- - “, take your car to the TATA authorized service center. Service Reminder Setting Service

as “- - “, take your car to the TATA authorized service center. Service Reminder Setting Service reminder reset option will be en- abled only in service due/overdue condi- tion only. 00 23°C Service Reset Service Reminder? = User can reset the service reminder sym- bol by pressing up Ei / down & buttons & and select B4 set buttons. NOTE In the Setting menu if there is no user input for 10 sec the previous screen Shall be displayed. DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Clock * Clock indicates current time in 12 / 24 hours mode. * Clock mode can be changed either through Instrument Cluster setting screen (If clock option not grey out by default) or through Infotainment sys- tem setting screen, refer infotainment system manual for this. Clock Setting + User can select clock setting by scroll down & pressing set button in setting screen. 23°C Set Time G@ 24 hour format 49  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES 50 Up and down button to be used for scrolling through fields of 24 hour format/hour/minute/AM/PM. Select

and down button to be used for scrolling through fields of 24 hour format/hour/minute/AM/PM. Select button to be used to enter into required field and exit from that. Up and down button to be used for changing the values.  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Display Messages On Instrument Cluster Below messages may be displayed in the screen for three seconds based on the priority and after display time is over some warnings will be shown with minimized tell tale symbol. Interrupts Messages NX NAVY rpm x1000 = 23°C EO NN 6 7 8 N =~ ™~ = = 5 4 Low key battery _ Nn — “wn 3 3 = =.2 fa NORMAL -— — - = So “Lf NOTE: All messages may not be applicable to your vehicle. I H ODO 256849 km ; 51  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Rotate steering wheel (In ESCL jam condition) Press Start Button While Turning Wheel Key Fob battery Low Smart Key Battery Low Replace Battery Smart key out of range Smart Key Out of Range Drive Alert - Tea Break Take a Break Steering Failure, Please Stop Driving Steering Failure Stop the

Alert - Tea Break Take a Break Steering Failure, Please Stop Driving Steering Failure Stop the Vehicle Safely Steering Failure, Please Visit Garage Steering Failure Contact Service Center Pedal Press Alert Clutch Press Clutch Pedal to Start Engine Happy Birthday Happy Birthday ©] ©} N] | on] A] ow] mp] = Align Steering wheel Align Steering wheel 52  Warning Messages DASHBOARD AND FEATURES 23°C FM 7) ® 97, ‘=r Speed Limit Warning \ Over Speeding Detected Slow Down Fuel Level Low State Fuel Level Low Fasten seat belt co-driver Fasten Co-Driver Seat Belt lw) Mm] = Fasten Seat Belt - Driver Fasten Driver Seat Belt Speed Limit Warning Over Speeding Detected Slow Down 53  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Information Messages ANU 27270 23°C 6 7 8 7 ® Cruise Control Rw to Resume Cruise 2 3 n Change Gear f NORMAL OK N ~ NSN ~ ~ =— E ~ ___ ODO 256849 km sir © ® eK Park Brake Engaged Park Brake Engaged Traction Control Off TCS Turned Off Auto Headlamp Auto Headlamp Activated eesume to Target Speed Not

Control Off TCS Turned Off Auto Headlamp Auto Headlamp Activated eesume to Target Speed Not Possible in Current Change Gear to Resume Cruise Speed Cruise Override Cruise Override Auto Stop Start the Engine Olan, & | wl rym! — ISS-Start the Engine 54  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES 7 Auto Start Enabled Low Battery Charge Autonomous Start Enabled - Battery SOC Low 8 Auto Start Enabled Low Brake Assist Vacuum Autonomous Start Enabled - Brake Vacuum Low 9 Auto Start Enabled High Cabin Temperature Autonomous Start Enabled — Cabin Temp high 10 Auto Start Enabled Low Coolant Temperature Autonomous Start Enabled — Coolant Temp Low 11 Auto Start Enabled Start Vehicle Rolling Auto Start Enabled Vehicle Rolling 12 Auto Start-Stop Enabled Text Alert Auto Start- Stop Enabled 13 Auto Start-Stop Disabled Text Alert Auto Start- Stop Disabled 55  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES INSTRUMENT CLUSTER (LCD Screen) Driver Information Fuel Tachometer Display Gauge Speedometer Set knob Temperature Mode knob Gauge NOTE: All

Fuel Tachometer Display Gauge Speedometer Set knob Temperature Mode knob Gauge NOTE: All indicators shown may not be applicable to your vehicle 56  Speedometer Speedometer indicates the vehicle speed in kmph. @ NOTE Whenever you turn the ignition on, the Instrument Cluster needles and gauges move to maximum value and return to ‘0’ position. This is a welcome strategy and a self-check feature. Tachometer nN ~ ~ ~~ —~ - = od 4 “4 Tachometer indicates engine speed in rev- olutions per min (rpm). WARNING Do not drive the vehicle with high en- gine rpm. This may cause damage to the engine and reduce its life. Fuel Gauge When the ignition switch is in “ON” posi- tion, fuel gauge gives an approximate in- DASHBOARD AND FEATURES dication of the amount of fuel in the fuel tank. “F” stands for full and “E” stands for empty. When fuel in the tank nears empty, low fuel warning tell-tale light glows. Fill fuel as soon as possible. NOTE * Do a check of the fuel level when the vehicle is stationary

Fill fuel as soon as possible. NOTE * Do a check of the fuel level when the vehicle is stationary on a plain surface. + The fuel level displayed can vary when you drive on inclines, curves, brake and accelerate suddenly. This is due to the movement of fuel in the tank. The low fuel warning lamp may turn to ON or OFF earlier or later than usual. 57  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES A\ WARNING If there is any fault in the system, Low fuel warning symbol will start blinking. Take your vehicle to the nearest TATA MOTORS Authorized Dealer/Service Center. Temperature Gauge When the ignition switch is in the “ON” po- sition, this gauge indicates the engine coolant temperature. The indicator should stay within the nor- mal, acceptable temperature range be- tween “H” and “C”. If the indicator approaches “H”, overheating is indicated by a red bar. If the coolant temperature reading is very high, the engine coolant temperature tell- tale light flashes with an audible buzzer. In this case, stop the

engine coolant temperature tell- tale light flashes with an audible buzzer. In this case, stop the vehicle, switch ‘OFF’ the engine and cool it down for some time. Contact the nearest TATA MOTORS Au- 58 thorized Dealer/Service Center immedi- ately for rectification. A\ WARNING The red progress bar indicates over- heating, due to high coolant tempera- ture which may damage the engine. Continuing to drive the vehicle in this case can result in severe engine dam- age or even fire.  Driver Information System (DIS) DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Odometer ODO 19234 km Indicates distance travelled by a vehicle. The Odometer reading does not re- turn to “O” when maximum value is reached, the display will freeze to maximum value. Trip meterA &B Ter seaHe ses tie The trip meter can be used to measure the distance travelled on short trips or between fuel stops. It can be reset to “O”. The Trip meter reading becomes “0.0” after it crosses 9999.9 km. Indicates current time in AM/PM mode. Clock time can be

becomes “0.0” after it crosses 9999.9 km. Indicates current time in AM/PM mode. Clock time can be changed using ‘SET’ & ‘MODE’ knob. mn S Whenever the battery terminals or related fuses are connected, you must reset Clock wu F , : F an Nonna ae OAM the clock time. This feature is available when ignition switch is in ON position. NOTE: Clock settings can also be changed through infotainment system. For more information, refer infotainment manual. . This warning will be indicated when the driver’s door or front passenger door Door Ajar is open. Service reminder # sok DAYS eg This indicates how many days/kilometres are left till service is due. If service is overdue, it will display “O” km or “O” days and a spanner symbol will blink every time ignition is ON for a few seconds. Never reset the display between service intervals as it may give incorrect readings. The information is retained in the service interval display even after the vehicle battery is disconnected. NOTE: This option is

the service interval display even after the vehicle battery is disconnected. NOTE: This option is for indicative purpose only. Keep track of your odometer reading and follow the maintenance schedule. 59  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Driver Information System Image Description Current gear engaged by the transmission shall be displayed on Driver Infor- mation System. Current gear position NOTE: indicator If “F’ is displayed it means a ‘Fault’ condition. Contact the nearest TATA MO- TORS authorized service centre immediately In case of manual transmission, the gear number shall be displayed even when the clutch is fully released. Up or down arrow will be displayed indicating for a gear change. No arrow shall be displayed when the selected gear is as per the vehicle dy- namics. Gear Recommendation 60  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES @ NOTE + AFE value is an estimate of fuel Instantaneous Fuel Economy (IFE) Average Fuel Economy (AFE) INST FE an . u Od Monitor the IFE bar graph to achieve bet- ter fuel

Average Fuel Economy (AFE) INST FE an . u Od Monitor the IFE bar graph to achieve bet- ter fuel economy. IFE display does not show Fuel Economy of last drive. The above image indicates real time fuel economy when the ignition is turned ‘ON’. The display does not show actual value unless vehicle is moving. The indication on the display may be de- layed if fuel consumption is affected by driving pattern. @ NOTE + IFE will vary frequently as per driv- ing pattern. + IFE display does not show Fuel Economy of last drive. LA] Seer errr ——— 2 As km/ Trip time, average speed and trip distance will reset to ‘0’ when respective trip meter is reset. Average Fuel Economy will be displayed as ‘—.—‘for initial 0.5 km of respective trip. Once 0.5 km distance is covered, Average Fuel Economy will be displayed. Even after 0.5 km distance covered for particular trip, if Average fuel economy is displayed as ‘—.—", then take your vehicle to the nearest TATA MOTORS authorized service centre. economy. It

as ‘—.—", then take your vehicle to the nearest TATA MOTORS authorized service centre. economy. It may vary significantly based upon driving conditions, driv- ing habits and condition of vehicle. Average Fuel Consumption will get reset to ‘0’ when Battery is removed and refitted. 61  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Distance To Empty (DTE) The above image indicates an approxi- mate distance in ‘km’ that your vehicle can travel with available fuel in tank. DTE values may vary significantly based on driving conditions, driving habits, and condition of the vehicle. It is an estimate value of the available driving distance. The DTE figure will update with a new value when fuel is added for more than seven litres at a time. If low fuel warning light glows, fill fuel im- mediately regardless of the DTE figure dis- played. @ NOTE If DTE is displayed as —-’, then take your vehicle to the TATA MOTORS Au- thorized Dealer/Service Center. 62  Outside Ambient Temperature This displays outside ambient

Au- thorized Dealer/Service Center. 62  Outside Ambient Temperature This displays outside ambient temperature reading with an accuracy of +1 °C. Since the temperature sensor is located at the front bumper of the vehicle, the tempera- ture reading can be affected by heat reflec- tion from the road surface, engine heat and the exhaust from surrounding traffic. DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Driver Information System (DIS) Setting PRESS MODE ODO & OAT SERVICE REMINDER TRIPA& AVGA PRESS ‘SET’ FOR LONG TIME TO RESET TRIP METER & AVG TRIP B &AVGB PRESS ‘SET! FOR) LONG TIME TO RESET TRIP METER & AVG 63  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Driver Information System (DIS) Setting Instrument cluster’s brightness intensity and backlight intensity will turn on after the Parking lamp is ON. AX WARNING The clock and illumination settings should be changed only when the vehi- cle is in stationary condition for safety purposes. Ilumination setting procedure + For illumination setting short Press SET button with position

Ilumination setting procedure + For illumination setting short Press SET button with position lamp ON. * Change illumination levels by short pressing SET button. 64 Illumination Setting  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Clock Setting @ NOTE Clock Setting + If parking lamp is ON and by short pee peat Digit Minute Second Digit i, SHORT PRESS Clock Both Hour nl utton Blink SET button p pare SI ho b ms you can enter ‘SET BUTTON Digit Blink Long press orig pone into illumination setting. + /fuser want go to clock screen then user has to short press SET button. + /fuseris in Illumination setting then Short press MODE will go to clock setting. + If user want clock in 24/12 hour for- mat, in any screen on Long press MODE button, clock changes to 12/24 hour format respectively. SET Button Long press exit from clock setting AMIPM Blink SET Button Long press 65  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Display Messages On Instrument Cluster Below messages can be displayed on the screen for four seconds based on the

On Instrument Cluster Below messages can be displayed on the screen for four seconds based on the priority. . INST FE x a8 SBBB8BR 1.Gear number Up/down Auto/Manual 6.Text info and warning 2.Mode display 7.Color tell tale 3.Driver Information display 8.Fuel gauge 4.Temperature gauge 9.Instantaneous Fuel Economy 5.Clock 10.Odometer / Trip A and B NOTE: All messages may not be applicable to your vehicle 66  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES 1 Speed Limit Warning OVERSPEED 2 Service Reminder Days SERVICE DUE 3 Service Reminder Km SERVICE DUE 4 Fuel Level Low State LOW FUEL 5 Key Fob battery Low KEY BATT LOW 6 Smart key out of range KEY OUT OF RANGE 7 Rotate steering wheel (In ESCL jam condition) ROTATE STEERING 8 Resume to Target Speed Not Possible in Current Gear UNABLE TO RESUME 9 Cruise Override CRUISE OVERRIDE 10 Cruise is Resuming to set speed CRUISE RESUMED 1 Cruise Off CRUISE OFF 12 Press CLUTCH PRESS CLUTCH 13 Please Crank PLZ CRANK 14 Autonomous Start Enabled - Battery SOC Low AUTOSTART 15

PRESS CLUTCH 13 Please Crank PLZ CRANK 14 Autonomous Start Enabled - Battery SOC Low AUTOSTART 15 Autonomous Start Enabled - Brake Vacuum Low AUTOSTART 16 Autonomous Start Enabled — Cabin Temp high AUTOSTART 17 Autonomous Start Enabled — Coolant Temp Low AUTOSTART 18 Drive Alert1 - Tea Break TAKE A BREAK 19 Cruise Cancelled CRUISE CANCELLED 20 Owner's Birthday HAPPY BIRTHDAY 67  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES TELL TALES 1. The lamp comes on when ignition is switched ‘ON’. Once engine is TORS Authorized Dealer/Service Center for rectification. 1. The lamp comes on when ignition is switched ‘ON’. Once engine is . started, it turns ‘OFF’. Check Engine Lamp Amber oto . . « . . . 2. Illuminates continuously if a fault arises in Engine Management System. . on started, it turns ‘OFF’. Malfunction Indication re . | . Lamp (MIL) Amber 2. It remains ‘ON’ for any engine related fault that may increase emission levels of the vehicle beyond the regulatory norms. Contact the TATA MO- Contact the TATA

emission levels of the vehicle beyond the regulatory norms. Contact the TATA MO- Contact the TATA MOTORS Authorized Dealer/Service Center. 1. The lamp comes on when the system disables the engine start if the orig- inal key is not used. Dealer/Service Center. 4. Lamp OFF: Normal condition (Authenticated user) and engine will start. Indicates direction indicated by the turn signal. While you operate the left/right turn indicator, the turn signal blinks along with the buzzer (when ignition is ‘ON’). The direction indicator arrow on the in- strument cluster flashes along with the selected external indicator lights. Both tell-tale lights will blink simultaneously when the hazard switch is pressed ir- respective of whether the ignition ON or OFF. A tick-tock sound will be heard in both cases. Immobilizer (if avail- Red 2. Lamp blinks: Vehicle is in immobilized condition when key is not inserted. e able) 3. Lamp ON: Problem with key/system. Contact TATA MOTORS Authorized Turn Signal Green

e able) 3. Lamp ON: Problem with key/system. Contact TATA MOTORS Authorized Turn Signal Green o> 68  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES High Beam Blue The lamp comes on when the high beam headlamps are switched ‘ON’ or flashed. Low Oil Pressure indi- cator Red 1. The lamp comes on when ignition is switched ‘ON’ and goes ‘OFF’ once required engine oil pressure is developed after starting the engine. 2. If the low oil pressure indicator does not glow or remains ‘ON’ when the engine is running, it indicates a fault in the electrical circuit/lubrication system. Contact the nearest TATA MOTORS Authorized service centre to rectify the issue. Battery charging Red The lamp comes on when ignition is switched ‘ON’. Once engine is started, it turns ‘OFF’. If it remains ‘ON’ while the engine is running, it indicates that the battery is not getting charged or having the lower charge. In such cases attempt to charge the battery 3000 engine rpm for 15 min and see if battery telltale goes off after one ignition

the battery 3000 engine rpm for 15 min and see if battery telltale goes off after one ignition ON-OFF. Even after 15 minutes, charging the battery telltale keeps ‘ON’ then switch off all unnecessary electrical equipment and contact the nearest TATA MOTORS Authorized service centre. Airbag status Red The lamp comes on when ignition is switched ‘ON’ and goes ‘OFF’. If it con- tinuously blinks then contact the TATA MOTORS Authorized Dealer/Service Center immediately. Park Brake / Brake Fluid Low / EBD mal- function Red —_= The lamp comes on momentarily when ignition is switched ‘ON’. Once park- ing brake is released, it turns ‘OFF’. If it remains ‘ON’, then it indicates: 1. Brake fluid level is low. 2. EBD malfunctioning. 69  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Cruise Control lamp (if available) Green The lamp comes on when ignition is switched it turns ‘OFF’. The Cruise Control is used to indicate the sta’ ‘ON’. Once engine is started, us of cruise control system to the driver. If the lamp is on, it

sta’ ‘ON’. Once engine is started, us of cruise control system to the driver. If the lamp is on, it indicates that the cruise control feature is acti- vated. High Coolant Temper- ature Red The lamp comes on when ignition is switched it turns ‘OFF’. ‘ON’. Once engine is started, If the engine overheats due to higher coolant temperatures, this indicator blinks along with an audible buzzer. Contact ure reaches the maximum limit, the tell-tale and you will hear an audio warning. engine is hot. Do not restart the engine until ended. your nearest TATA MOTORS authorized service Centre immediately. When the engine coolant tempera- ights blink with a RED colour Note: Do not remove the radiator pressure cap from the radiator when the he problem has been duly at- ABS Amber The ABS warning lamp in the instrument clus is switched on. It goes off after 2-3 seconds i The lamp remains on if there is any malfunctio ‘em will be operational without assistance o' TORS Authorized Dealer/Service Center imm

malfunctio ‘em will be operational without assistance o' TORS Authorized Dealer/Service Center imm ter lights up when the ignition system is healthy. nin ABS. Normal braking sys- ABS. Contact the TATA MO- ediately. SPORT (if available) Amber This symbol comes ON when SPORT driving more torque is required mode is activated when 70  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES The lamp comes on when ignition is switched ‘ON’. Once engine is started, it turns ‘OFF’. The symbol lights up continuously if fuel level in the tank is low. Fuel needs Low Fuel indicator Amber to be filled immediately. Note: The tell-tale warning light will start flashing if there is any fault in the fuel system. Contact the nearest TATA MOTORS Authorized Dealer/Service Center immediately. The driver seatbelt warning indicator remains ON, when ignition is turned ON. Driver Seat belt indi- The warning lamp remains ON as long as the driver seatbelt is not fastened. Red of If seatbelt remains unbuckled and vehicle goes above 15 kmph,

seatbelt is not fastened. Red of If seatbelt remains unbuckled and vehicle goes above 15 kmph, then final cator ew ie . . . audio warning will go on for 90 seconds. Note: Once the seatbelt is fastened the buzzer and warning lamp turns OFF. Seatbelt reminder gets OFF when reverse gear is engaged. Key Not Detected (if ——~J This lamp comes on when the Valid Smart key is not detected inside the ve- f Amber a : available) eee] hicle. Press Clutch Pedal to id This lamp comes on with IGN ON till user presses the clutch pedal to start Start Engine (if avail-| Amber SS the engine able) gine. . ae a The lamp remains on if excess water is accumulated in the fuel filter. When Water in fuel indicator Amber this lamp blinks along with chime contact the nearest TATA MOTORS Au- (Diesel) thorized Dealer/Service Center to drain the water immediately to avoid seri 71  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES ous damage to the fuel injection system. The lamp comes on when ignition is switched ‘ON’. Once engine is started,

fuel injection system. The lamp comes on when ignition is switched ‘ON’. Once engine is started, indicator ing). Daytime runnin . ‘ ; lamps DRL (if avail Green it turns OFF. . . 5 ‘ONE able) This lamp comes on when the Daytime Running lamp is ‘ON’. Note: parking lamp should be on start the DRL lamp. a 42) Door Ajar lamp (if . bed All four door and Tail gate are indicated independently when the respective f White / Red : ‘ available) door or tail gate is open. The co-driver seatbelt warning indicator turns ON when ignition is turned ON. If front passenger seat is occupied by adult, the warning lamp remains ON Front Passenger Seat Ea as long as the co-driver seatbelt is not fastened. a Red If seatbelt remains unbuckled and vehicle goes above 15 kmph, then final belt indicator q P . audio warning will go on for 90 seconds. Note: Once the seatbelt is fastened the buzzer and warning lamp turns OFF. Seatbelt reminder gets OFF when reverse gear is engaged. Speed limit warning find When the

OFF. Seatbelt reminder gets OFF when reverse gear is engaged. Speed limit warning find When the vehicle speed crosses 80 kmph, then speed limit warning indicator Amber turns ‘ON’ along with an audio chime for every two minutes (audible warn- 72  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES If vehicle speed crosses 120 kmph, the speed limit warning indicator flashes along with an audio warning continuously, until the vehicle speed is above 120 kmph. If vehicle speed is between 80 kmph and 120 kmph, then the audio warning will become less frequent but the speed limit warning Indicator will remain ‘ON’ continuously. When the vehicle speed is reduced below 80 kmph, then the speed limit warning indicator and the audio warning will turn off. ECO (if available) Green The lamp comes on when ignition is switched ‘ON’. Once engine is started, it turns ‘OFF’. When ECO lamp is ON, it indicates the car is in ‘Economy’ drive mode, which helps to achieve a better fuel economy. CITY White / Blue The lamp comes on when

drive mode, which helps to achieve a better fuel economy. CITY White / Blue The lamp comes on when ignition is switched ‘ON’. Once engine is started, it turns ‘OFF’. If CITY lamp is ON, it indicates ‘City’ drive mode, which helps to achieve op- timum torque and fuel economy. DPF (if available) Amber The DPF warning light or symbol switches ‘ON’ continuously to indicate that the DPF needs to eliminate the trapped pollutants (particulate matter) through the re-generation procedure. The warning light or symbol switch ‘ON’ only when driving conditions require the driver to be notified. DPF ‘ON’ does not indicate a malfunction. To switch off the warning light or symbol, keep the car running on road until regeneration is complete (ideally at 34 gear, 50-80 kmph, with engine speed over 2000 rpm). The process normally takes about 20 minutes. 73  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES The warning light or symbol remains off during the entire DPF regeneration procedure If the procedure is not followed, MIL

remains off during the entire DPF regeneration procedure If the procedure is not followed, MIL lamp will switch ON, along with DPF lamp on Instrument cluster. Note: Please follow the above-recommended DPF regeneration procedure to avoid MIL lamp switch ‘ON’. In case, MIL lamp switch ON, please contact nearest TATA authorized service centre to restore DPF operation. Illuminates momentarily when ignition is switched ‘ON’. able) EPAS Amber ey Illuminates when there is a fault in the EPAS. Contact a TATA MOTORS Authorised Service Centre immediately. Illuminates momentarily when ignition is switched ‘ON’. AMT Fault (If avail- Amber Illuminates continuously when there is a fault in Automatic Manual Transmission system. Contact a TATA MOTORS authorized Service Centre immediately. 74  AUDIO REMINDERS (as available) Key-in Reminder/audio Warning f you forget the key inside the vehicle when you leave the ignition in ‘OFF’ posi- ion, an audio warning will sound. Remove key to stop the warning.

leave the ignition in ‘OFF’ posi- ion, an audio warning will sound. Remove key to stop the warning. If no key is detected in the vehicle f the vehicle is in ACC ON/IGN ON and he customer takes the smart key out of he vehicle and closes the last door, an audio warning will be sounded for nine imes to alert that the key is not in the ve- hicle. @ NOTE In this condition customer needs to bring the smart key inside the vehicle. Parking Lamp ‘ON’ Reminder If you forget to turn OFF the park lamp, an audio warning will be started. Switched OFF the park lamps to stop the warning. Do not forget to turn OFF your park lamp as it may drain the vehicle’s bat- tery. Parking Brake ‘ON’ Reminder If Park Brake is applied and vehicle is driven, Telltale will turn ‘ON’ and buzzer will provide audio warning continuously. Disengage the park brake to stop audio warning. Reverse Gear Reminder If reverse gear is engaged, the buzzer sound will alert you. Driver Seat Belt Reminder If seatbelt is not fastened

is engaged, the buzzer sound will alert you. Driver Seat Belt Reminder If seatbelt is not fastened and vehicle goes above 15 kmph, then final audio warning will go on for 90 seconds. Seat belt tell-tale light will blicks when audio alarm is active. Front Passenger Seat Belt Re-minder If front passenger has not fastened seat- belt and if vehicle speed goes above 15 kmph, then final audio warning will go on for 90 seconds. Seat belt tell-tale light will DASHBOARD AND FEATURES blicks when audio alarm is active. @ NOTE Fasten the seatbelt to stop audio warn- ing. Door Open Reminder If any door is open and the user tries to lock the vehicle, one flash with a beep sound will indicate that a door is open. Engine Coolant Temperature High Chime The engine coolant temperature tell-tale warning light along with an audio warning will alert the driver if the coolant tempera- ture is high. Speed Limit Chime When speed of the vehicle is greater than 80 kmph, an audio warning will sound at periodic

Chime When speed of the vehicle is greater than 80 kmph, an audio warning will sound at periodic interval of 120 seconds. When vehicle speed crosses 120 kmph, continuous audio warning (beeps) will sound. Drive Mode Chime When user switches drive mode from city 75  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES to eco or eco to city, a single audio warn- ing will sound. Electronic Steering Column Lock (ESCL) Chime This feature informs the driver to rotate steering wheel when ESCL gets engaged accidentally. WIF (Water in fuel)/FFC(fuel Filter Clog ) Chime If water is detected in fuel buzzer shall sound to alert you. Amt Fault Reminder If Fault occur in AMT, 3 second audio warning will alert you. 76 COMBI-SWITCH (RH Stalk) (if avail- able) 1. Left Turn Signal Move the lever fully upward. 2. Right Turn Signal Move the lever fully downward. @NOTE When the turn is completed, the signal will cancel and the lever will return to its normal position. 3. High Beam Move the lever forward to select the high beam

will return to its normal position. 3. High Beam Move the lever forward to select the high beam function. Pull the lever back to normal for low beam. 4. High Beam Flash (spring Return) To flash the high beam, pull the lever to- wards you from the normal position. It will return to its normal position when you re- lease it. 5. Headlamp Rotary Switch OFF Position All lamps will remain ‘OFF’. Parking Lamp Rotate stalk to turn ‘ON’ the Parking lamps. Low Beam Rotate stalk to turn ‘ON’ the Low Beam function. Auto Light The headlights will be au- tomatically switched ON depending on ambient light conditions v WW 10] v WwW Q  (while entering a tunnel or when it is twi- light). 6. Day Time Running Lamps (DRL) Day time Running Lamps fag (DRL) are used to increase the visibility of the vehicle to other drivers during daytime. 1. To activate and deactivate DRL, keep the ignition switch is ‘ON’ position and switch the parking lamp ON-OFF twice. 2. Activation and Deactivation of DRL can be done by

and switch the parking lamp ON-OFF twice. 2. Activation and Deactivation of DRL can be done by DRL soft switch, which is available on the Infotainment Display. 7. Lane Change Signal To signal a lane change, move the lever slightly up or down to the point where the turn signal light begins to flash for six times, but the lever does not latch. The turn signal will flash six times automati- cally. HEAD LAMP LEVELING ROTARY SWITCH DASHBOARD AND FEATURES COMBI-SWITCH (LH Stalk) (if avail- able) nner rotary switch on right hand stalk is provided for head lamp leveling. With the inner rotary switch, Head lamp leveling can be done with head lamp in Low Beam and in ‘ON’ position. Select correct posi- tion before start of trip, when the vehicle is stationary. Depending on the number of passengers and luggage in the vehicle headlamp focus may change. This can be adjusted by rotating the knob to one of the three level positions. 0 ‘off’ Position The wiper is switched ‘OFF’. 1 Intermittent Wipe

one of the three level positions. 0 ‘off’ Position The wiper is switched ‘OFF’. 1 Intermittent Wipe Push the stalk upwards to oper- ate intermittent wipe. Inner rotary switch on left hand stalk is provided for intermittent front wiper delay. The switch has five delay timers. Push the stalk towards position (1) for single wipe. 77  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES 2 Slow Wipe Push the stalk towards position (2) for con- inuous slow wipe. 3 Fast Wipe Push the stalk towards position (3) for con- inuous fast wipe. 4 Flick Wipe (spring return) Pull the stalk downwards and W hold it for continuous wipe, the wiper continuously wipes across the wind- shield at low speed till the stalk is re- leased. 5 Front Windshield Washer + Pull the lever little longer, to spray the washer fluid on POLE the windshield. + The windshield wipers will operate for three cycles after the lever is released and for one more cycle after five sec- onds. @ NOTE When you crank the engine, the supply to washer motor is

more cycle after five sec- onds. @ NOTE When you crank the engine, the supply to washer motor is momentarily cut off. 78 Auto Front Wipe If your vehicle is fitted with rain and light sensor, the wipers will automatically wipe the windscreen, if it senses rainfall. Make sure that the wiper stalk is in Auto position. @NOTE When you crank the engine, the supply to washer motor is momentarily cut off. 6 Rear Wash And Wipe Rear Windshield / Wiper And Washer (spring return) Turn the rotary knob clockwise and release to operate rear windshield wash and wipe. The wind- shield wipers will operate for three cycles. Rear Wipe Turn the rotary knob counter | clockwise such that it aligns its positions with arrow mark to operate rear windshield wiper continuously. @ NOTE Rear wiper will not work as long as tail- gate is open. Rear Windshield/ Wiper And Washer Switch Turn the rotary knob counter clockwise such that it aligns its positions with the arrow mark and hold it to operate rear windshield

such that it aligns its positions with the arrow mark and hold it to operate rear windshield wash and wipe function. It will return to ‘Rear wipe’ posi- tion as soon as it is released and contin- ues to wipe.  @ NOTE When you reverse the car with front wipers in ‘ON’ condition, the rear wiper will also be ‘ON’ (if provided). A\ WARNING If you operate wash and wipe function for more than 15 seconds the controller cuts off the supply to the washer motors to avoid overheating. Rain/light Sensor (if available) The integrated rain and light sensor is mounted on front windshield glass to sense rain and light. As per the input from sensor, the wipe and light functions will work automatically. DASHBOARD CONTROLS Fascia switches are provided on driver side dashboard. 1. Front Fog lamp switch 2. ECO mode 3. Idle stop start switch (ISS) DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Front Fog Lamps (if available) The front fog lamps are located on the front bumper. In poor visibility conditions due to fog, snow or

front fog lamps are located on the front bumper. In poor visibility conditions due to fog, snow or rain, the fog lamps make visibility better and make it easier for other road users to see you. It turns to ‘ON’ when the fog lamp switch is turned on when the ignition is ‘ON’ and when the po- sition and parking/ head lamp is ‘ON’. An indicator on the instrument cluster will come on when the front fog light is ‘ON’. Fog Lamp As Cornering Lamp The front fog lamps also function as cor- 79  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES nering lamps to light up the area to the side of the vehicle, making night-time parking and turning safer. Eco Mode(if available) Refer Starting and Driving section. Idle Stop Start Switch (ISS) (if avail- able) Your car is equipped with push Button on right side of the dashboard to Enable OR Disable ISS function. For more details refer ‘starting & driving” section. 80 STEERING MOUNTED CONTROLS (LHS) (if available) 1. Volume Press above switch to in- a+ | nd -| crease or decrease

CONTROLS (LHS) (if available) 1. Volume Press above switch to in- a+ | nd -| crease or decrease volume of music system / radio. 2. Seek Forward/backward Press above switch to change radio channels. 3. Receive Calls/PTT (Push to Talk) Press above switch to accept incoming call when a cell phone a is connected via Bluetooth. Voice Recognition To start, press the voice activation button provided on the steering wheel. The sys- tem mutes/ pauses the currently played audio and you will hear a beep sound to indicate the activation of the voice recog- nition feature. The system displays the Voice Recognition screen on Infotainment to indicate activation of the feature. @ NOTE + The system will start recognizing your voice command only after the beep. So, speak your command only after you hear the voice activa- tion beep. + For more information related to steering mounted controls, refer the infotainment manual. ((Refer link - http://service.tatamotors.com/con- tent/owners-manual )if

the infotainment manual. ((Refer link - http://service.tatamotors.com/con- tent/owners-manual )if applicable)  4. Mute/phone Reject Press above switch to reject or hang up a phone call. It is also used to mute the volume of music system/radio. 5. Source Press above switch to select the required source in the infotain- Xh.. ment system i.e. USB, AM, FM and Bluetooth. STEERING MOUNTED CONTROLS (RHS) (if available) Instrumentation Controls(IC) 1. Instrumentation Controls Scroll LH Press above switch to scroll LH on Instrument Cluster display 2. Instrumentation Controls Scroll RH Press above switch to scroll RH on Instrument Cluster display. DASHBOARD AND FEATURES 2. OK / Select & Long Press for Set- tings Press the above switch to select 12 the option and long press it (ap- prox. three seconds) to go directly to the instrument cluster settings. 3. Cruise Set (reset) Using Speed In- crease (decrease) Switch + Press the cruise control mas- ~10 | ter switch on steering wheel. + Accelerate

(decrease) Switch + Press the cruise control mas- ~10 | ter switch on steering wheel. + Accelerate the vehicle to the de-sired speed. + Make sure that the Clutch and Brake pedals are not pressed. Press the ‘SET’ button on steering wheel switch to set the desired cruise speed. The cruise control indicator on instrument cluster will turn ‘ON’. + Remove your foot from the accelerator pedal. Once Cruise control is activated the vehi- cle automatically maintains the stored speed. 81  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES @ NOTE Minimum gear and speed requirements for setting the cruise. 4. Changing the Set Cruise Speed The set cruise speed can be adjusted using the buttons ‘+’ (to increase) or ‘-’ (to decrease) on steer- ing wheel. The speed increases and decreases ona single press. The changed speed will be shown on the speedometer. Keeping the switch pressed increases or decreases the speed continuously till the switch is released or maximum/ minimum speed limit for particular gear is reached. The set

till the switch is released or maximum/ minimum speed limit for particular gear is reached. The set speed can also be increased by pressing the accelerator pedal till the de- sired speed is achieved and then pressing the ‘SET’ button. The set speed can also be decreased by pressing the brake pedal (The cruise indi- cator will turn OFF) and slowing down to 82 desired speed and then pressing the ‘SET’ button (The cruise control indicator will turn ‘ON’ again). 5. Cruise Control Master Switch Cruise speed can be resumed only if cruise control is deacti- vated by applying the brake. To resume the previously set cruise speed, accelerate the vehicle to a speed is as per gear selected as below: 3° gear approx. 30Kmph to 80Kmph 4 gear approx. 40kmph to 120Kmph 5'" gear approx. 50kmph to 140Kmph 6. Cruise Control Deactivating Switch There are two ways to deacti- vate cruise control: Applying brake / clutch. Press deactivation switch on Steering Wheel. @NOTE When the vehicle will come out of

/ clutch. Press deactivation switch on Steering Wheel. @NOTE When the vehicle will come out of cruise automatically- when threshold require ment of required power and torque is not met, vehicle might come out of cruise control and manual intervention might be required. It normally happen when vehicle runs at gradient and sharp turning with slope. @ NOTE For more information related to steering mounted controls, refer the infotainment manual. ((Refer link - http://service.tatamotors.com/content/o wners-manual )if applicable)  MIC (if available) Mic is provided near the roof lamp. DASHBOARD AND FEATURES INFOTAINMENT SYSTEM DISPLAY Option II (if available) Option | D) NOTE For more information, refer infotainment manual. Refer link - https://cars.tatamotors.com/service/ow ners/owners-manual) For compatible list of phones, refer link: https://cars.tatamotors.com/service/ow ners/phone-bluetooth-compatibility- with-car-infotainment-system 83  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Master /force Reset

with-car-infotainment-system 83  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Master /force Reset Process If your infotainment system touch screen becomes unresponsive or shows some unusual behavior, then you can restart it to potentially resolve the issue. Follow some basic steps given below and you can restart the system. To restart the infotainment system 1. 2. Park the vehicle. Hold the Steering wheel Mute button (long press) for more than 10 secs and then release the button as soon as the display goes blank. The step above will trigger the infotain- ment system restart procedure. Wait until the system restarts. When you Hold the Steering wheel Mute button for more than 15 sec, sys- tem aborts restart process and display turns ON. 84 It is preferable to do one Ignition OFF to ON cycle after Master/Force reset to synchronize vehicle settings with the TATA Infotainment System. If the reboot does not work or mas- ter/force resets are required on a weekly or daily basis, vehicle shall be taken to

work or mas- ter/force resets are required on a weekly or daily basis, vehicle shall be taken to dealership. There, the dealer can update your firmware or inspect the system for hardware problem. Force/Master reset keeps the stored data, such as call history, text mes- sage information, and previously paired phones as it is. SPEAKERS & TWEETER (if avail- able) 1. Tweeter 2. Speaker Speakers and Tweeters are available in models with infotainment system. Provi- sions are given for music system and speakers on versions without infotainment system.  USB PORT (if available) Connect your pen drives to this socket for playing music tracks through the vehicle’s music system. POWER SOCKET (if available) The power socket will work when the igni- tion switch is in the “ACC” or “ON” posi- tion. This socket can be used to provide 12V (10A) power for electrical acces- sories. For front passenger DASHBOARD AND FEATURES For rear passenger @ NOTE + Use of unapproved electrical acces- sories can cause

AND FEATURES For rear passenger @ NOTE + Use of unapproved electrical acces- sories can cause damage to your vehicle’s electrical system. + Make sure that any electrical acces- sories you use are de-signed to plug into this type of socket and rating. 85  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES ANTENNA ROOF GRAB HANDLE Option Il Option | => Antenna is located on the roof. Turn the Grab handles are installed on the roof for antenna anticlockwise to remove it from all seats except for the driver’s seat. These he vehicle, if required. help the passengers to position them- selves comfortably during the journey. @ NOTE Please keep vehicle Antenna position in maximum upward direction to get good quality Tuner reception.  ROOF LAMP nterior roof lighting lamp is provided on the roof with inbuilt switch. The switch has three positions: ale ON - The lamp will turn ‘ON’ as long as the switch is in this po- sition. s * DOOR - In this position the j]amp turns to ‘ON’ when either of the doors are opened. When the

s * DOOR - In this position the j]amp turns to ‘ON’ when either of the doors are opened. When the last door is closed, the lamp will turn ‘OFF’ with dimming. This helps settling in the seat and inserting the key in the ignition switch. When the key is turned to the ‘IGN’ posi- tion, the lamp goes ‘OFF’ immediately. OFF - In this position, the lamp will remain ‘OFF’. DASHBOARD AND FEATURES BOOT LAMP (if available) Boot lamp is provided in the rear luggage compartment to illuminate the luggage area. It will switch on whenever any door or tail- gate is open. 87  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES FRONT LAMP TAIL LAMP . Position /Turn indicator lamp . Reverse lamp (on LH lamp only) . High beam lamp . Stop lamp . Position lamp . Turn indicator . High mounted Stop Lamp (CHMSL) . Front fog lamp (if available) . Low beam lamp . DRL (if available) arwWN = ar WN = 88  STOWAGE AREAS STORAGE COMPARTMENT 1. Glove box 4. Utility pockets on rear doors 7. Tailgate Compartment (Luggage) 2. Driver side coin box 5.

box 4. Utility pockets on rear doors 7. Tailgate Compartment (Luggage) 2. Driver side coin box 5. Centre console 3. Utility pockets on front doors 6. Stowage for rear passenger 89  STOWAGE AREAS Glove Box Opening And Closing To open - Pull the lever to open the glove box flap. To close - Lift glove box flap until it en- gages. Glove Box Illumination (if available) The glove box lamp illuminates when the glove box flap is opened. 90 NOTE Cooling Facility (if available) 7 On selected models glove box is provided Make sure that glove box flap is closed with a cooling facility. It cools the glove box while driving. only when the front A/C is ON. Shut OFF the vent by rotating the knob, whenever Stowage Detail (if available) cooling is not required. Following items can be stowage in glove box. 1. iPad 2. Visiting card 3. Pen holder 4. Mobile Phone  STOWAGE AREAS Driver Side Coin Box Utility Pockets On Front Doors Utility Pockets On Rear Doors Stowage is provided on RH side of steer- _

Pockets On Front Doors Utility Pockets On Rear Doors Stowage is provided on RH side of steer- _ Utility pockets are provided on front doors _ Utility pockets are available on rear doors ing wheel for Coin, mobile and wallet. and it can be used to keep following items. and it can be used to keep following items. 1. Magazine / paper / books 1. Suitable water bottle 2. Suitable water bottle 2. Magazine / paper / books 3. Umbrella Remove the water from umbrella and fold it properly before storing it in um- brella holder. 91  STOWAGE AREAS Center Console Cup Holder For Front Passenger Stowage For Rear Passenger (if avail- Following items can be stowage in Center Space for cup holder are provided in cen- able) console. tre console. Stowage for the rear passenger is avail- able on rear side of floor console between the front passenger seats. It can be used to keep phone and small items. + Pen holder * Cup holder * Coin box Applicable for models where rear vents is not provided. 92  STOWAGE

holder * Cup holder * Coin box Applicable for models where rear vents is not provided. 92  STOWAGE AREAS Tailgate Compartment (luggage) Store the luggage in tailgate compartment. You can keep suitcase, bags, etc. cause an injury to occupants. Luggage cover is designed only for hid- ing the luggage compartment. WARNING + Distribute the items of luggage as evenly as possible. Do not put any object on Luggage cover A a aan + Position heavy loads towards rear as it may obstruct driver’s rear visibility. seat and low down in the trunk as possible. + Do not allow occupants to travel in the luggage compartment. + Do not place anything on luggage cover as it could obstruct driver’s rear view. Also in case of an acci- dent or sudden braking, it could 93  STOWAGE AREAS HOOKS (if available) Coat Hook Coat hanger is provided for rear passen- ger on right side grab handle. + The coat hook is not designed to carry heavy objects or lug-gage items. * Do not hang hard, sharp-edged or fragile objects

to carry heavy objects or lug-gage items. * Do not hang hard, sharp-edged or fragile objects on the coat hook. 94 Collapsible Hook Collapsible hook is provided for hanging small carry bags etc. Do not use these hooks for securing luggage like using nets etc. in the boot. Carrier Hook Carrier hook is provided for hanging smal carry bags etc.  TAG HOLDER (if available) Tag holder is provided near the front wind- shield for ease of displaying toll, parking tickets, ID’s, passes, labels etc. FRONT SEAT BACK POCKETS (if available) Rear pockets are provided behind the front seats for keeping small magazines /Note- book etc. STOWAGE AREAS 95  96  CLIMATE CONTROL AIR DISTRIBUTION Air Distribution- The air is distributed through the vents in the passenger compartment as shown below: 97  CLIMATE CONTROL AIR VENTS Air vents are available on the dashboard. The direction of air flow can be adjusted using sliders on the respective vents. Centre Air Vents (Front) 98 Side Air Vent (Front) ELECTRONIC

using sliders on the respective vents. Centre Air Vents (Front) 98 Side Air Vent (Front) ELECTRONIC TEMPERATURE CONTROL (ETC) (if available) 1. Air Distribution Mode -Center and side N on Pw Air Distribution Mode- center, side and foot well Air Distribution Mode -foot well Blower Speed Control AC ON/OFF Switch Air Distribution Mode- defroster & foot well Max. Defrost button  8. Fresh / Recirculation air mode 9. OFF Switch 1. Air Distribution Mode -center And Side This is to select the air distribu- ion pattern directs air through the center and side air vents. 2. Air Distribution Mode Center, Side And Foot Well This is to select the air distribu- ion pattern directs air through Col he center and side and foot well air vents. 3. Air Distribution Mode -foot Well This is to select the air distribu- inf _ ion pattern directs air through he foot well air vent. 4. Blower Speed Control Press the Blower Speed control down but- on 3 | to decrease the blower speed and press the blower speed

the Blower Speed control down but- on 3 | to decrease the blower speed and press the blower speed control up but- ion $8 for increase the blower speed. 5. Ac Onloff Press the button to switch ON/OFF the AC. The indica- tor lamp in the button will light up when AC is ON. @ NOTE The AC can be switched ‘ON’ only if the blower is ‘ON’ and engine is running. When AC is switched ‘ON’, engine idling RPM increases marginally to adjust the AC compressor load. When desired temperature is achieved Ac compressor will self-displace optimum re- frigerant flow. @ NOTE * Condensate may drip from the un- derside of the vehicle when it is in cooling mode. Traces of water on the ground are normal and are not a sign of leakage or malfunction. + Ventilate the vehicle for a brief pe- riod during warm weather. This will CLIMATE CONTROL speed up the cooling process and the desired vehicle interior temper- ature will be reached quickly. Do not cover the air vents or air in- take grilles in the vehicle

ature will be reached quickly. Do not cover the air vents or air in- take grilles in the vehicle interior. If the AC is not used for a long pe- riod, such as during winter, it may not give the best performance when you start using it again. Operate the AC at least once a month to main- tain optimum performance. While you start the vehicle after a long duration (more than 15 days), follow the procedure for better AC performance: * Start the vehicle and allow the engine to idle for 2-3 minutes. AC should be off in this period. * Switch the AC on and run it for another 2~3 minutes while the engine idles. This circulates the refrigerant and oil to lubricate the internal parts of the air-con- ditioning system. 99  CLIMATE CONTROL 6. Air Distribution Mode- Defroster & Foot Well This is to select the air dis- tribution pattern directs air pd = through the foot well air vent and also through defrost. 7. Max. Defrost Button This button directs the main airflow towards windscreen for faster

defrost. 7. Max. Defrost Button This button directs the main airflow towards windscreen for faster defrosting. (It also overrides any mode selection you may have made.) @ NOTE + For your safety make sure you have a clear view through all the windows before driving. + When “Air Distribution Mode - De- froster & Foot Well” or “Air distribu- tion mode - Defroster” is pressed, system may switch on AC and move to fresh air for optimum demisting/defrosting 100 8. Fresh / Recirculation Air Mode Press the switch to activate / c— deactivate air recirculation mode. Press to ‘ON’ or ‘OFF’ 9. Off Button Press the OFF button to switch the system ‘OFF’. FULLY AUTOMATIC TEMPERA- TURE CONTROL (FATC) (if avail- able) FATC system controls the in-cabin temper- ature of the vehicle automatically and pro- vides maximum passenger convenience regardless of outside weather conditions. Rear window demister button Maximum Defrost button Air Distribution mode - Defroster Blower speed control down button Blower

Maximum Defrost button Air Distribution mode - Defroster Blower speed control down button Blower speed up control button aPWN SD  Temperature control knob Auto ON selection button AC button 9. Fresh Air / Recirculation button 10. OFF button Display Unit FATC display is shown on main display screen. Ono 96 PMB7SMHz gy % 01:36 § | Sound: Demo: FATC functions can be controlled using both the FATC control panel and the touch screen display. Whenever the user presses any push but- ton or turns the rotary knob, then the dis- play unit will show the relevant Climate In- formation. Also, when the display is not in climate mode then climate information will be dis- played on the all-time display available on the top bar. Fatc Controls 1. Rear Window Demister Button This button turns the rear win- Ga) dow demister ON or OFF. The system will be deactivated after 15 min of continuous operation. Rear Demister works only when Engine is Running. 2. Max Defrost Button This button directs the main

Rear Demister works only when Engine is Running. 2. Max Defrost Button This button directs the main airflow towards windscreen for faster defrosting. (It also overrides any mode selection you may have made.) When you turn off the button, the system returns to its former settings. CLIMATE CONTROL @ NOTE For your safety make sure you have a clear view through all the windows be- fore driving. 3. Air Distribution Mode Button In AUTO mode, the FATC sys- 32 o em will regulate the mode au- et ‘omatically. However, user override is possible with the use of MODE button to select the desired airflow mode. Each time you press the MODE button, he display shows the mode selected. => Directs air through the center, Directs air through the center and side air vents o side and foot well vents 7 Directs air through the foot well a air vents Directs air through the defroster & foot well vents (De-fault fresh air mode) wy vel Directs air through the defroster SH vents (Default fresh air mode) 101

fresh air mode) wy vel Directs air through the defroster SH vents (Default fresh air mode) 101  CLIMATE CONTROL 4. Blower Speed Control Down Button Press the Blower Speed con- trol down button to decrease the blower speed. 5. Blower Speed Control Up Button Press the Blower Speed con- trol up button to increase the blower speed. 6. Temperature Control Knob Turning the temperature control knob clockwise increases the temperature of the air. The desired temperature will be in- creased by steps of 0.5°C. User can select temperature range from 18°C to 30°C. Turning the knob in the anticlockwise di- rection reduces temperature. When you set the temperature to its lower limit (Lo) or its upper limit (Hi), the system runs at full cooling or heating only. It does- n't regulate the interior temperature. 102 7. Auto On Selection Button S To put the automatic climate control in fully automatic mode: Press the ‘AUTO’ button. 1. Set the desired temperature by turning emperature control knob. The

Press the ‘AUTO’ button. 1. Set the desired temperature by turning emperature control knob. The display will show all the functions during ‘AUTO’ mode. 2. The system automatically selects the proper mix of conditioned and / or heated air that will, as quickly as pos- sible, raise or lower the interior temper- ature to your preference. 3. When you set the temperature to its ower limit (Lo) or its upper limit (Hi), he system runs at full cooling or heat- ing only. It does not regulate the inte- rior temperature. Semi-automatic Operation You can manually select various functions of the climate control system when it is in fully automatic mode. All other features re- main automatically controlled. Making any manual selection causes the word ‘AUTO’ in the display to go OFF and the overrid- den setting is displayed. System will re- main in semiautomatic mode till ‘AUTO’ is pressed again. 8. Ac ON/OFF Button Press the AC ON/OFF but- ton to turn the air condition- ing ON or OFF. The AC icon

Ac ON/OFF Button Press the AC ON/OFF but- ton to turn the air condition- ing ON or OFF. The AC icon activated on the display when the AC is ON. 9. Fresh Air / Recirculation Button Real 1. When the recirculation button or LED is switched ‘ON’, air from the vehicle’s interior is sent throughout the system. 2. When the recirculation button is switched to ‘OFF’, air from outside en- ters into the cabin (fresh mode). When- ever discomfort is felt, switch to fresh air mode.  @ NOTE 1. The outside air intakes for the climate CLIMATE CONTROL A solar sensor on windshield glass at the top center. control systems are at the base of wind- screen. Keep this area clear from leaves and other debris. Use recirculation mode for faster heating and cooling. However, keeping the system in recirculation mode - particularly when the AC is in OFF - can cause fogging of windows. @ NOTE When reverse gear is selected, air inlet may switch to recirculation mode if it is 2. in fresh air mode, to prevent exhaust

air inlet may switch to recirculation mode if it is 2. in fresh air mode, to prevent exhaust fumes from entering the cabin. HVAC system is fitted with three sensors 10. “OFF” Button Press the OFF button to switch the system ‘OFF’. OFF will be displayed on the infotainment screen. Hvac Sensors =>. 3. Outside Ambient Temperature (OAT) sensor located under the front bumper rill. In-car sensor on HVAC control panel. 9 @ NOTE + Do not cover or spill any liquid on sensors. + Do not cover sensor, this may cause the sensor to malfunction. This may lead to FATC not functioning to de- sired level. 103  CLIMATE CONTROL Function And Setting Functions Control Knob Posi- Button Position Settings tion (6) (7) (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (8) (9) Temperature Auto R ear Maximum Air distribu-|Blower Blower Up| A/C Fresh air/ recir- demister | Defrost tion Down culation Normal heat- . Desired/DesiredjAs_ de- ing Desired Temp |Auto |OFF OFF art Speed Speed sired OFF : To the extreme Quick heat: cht until temp|OFF

Temp |Auto |OFF OFF art Speed Speed sired OFF : To the extreme Quick heat: cht until temp|OFF JOFFE OFF aft NA M 2 *lacon_ |oFF ing up v speed No rma ||Desired Tem- Auto OFF OFF od Desired|Desired ACON ION Cooling perature Speed Speed : To the extreme Quick Cool) 55 Until temp|OFF |OFF OFF adj NA M @ Xlacon Jon ing ‘LO’ speed To the right up, . F Demisting |to the desired|OFF | As Desired|ON STH DesirediDesiredi ac on |ore speed speed temperature To the right up, Max Defrosting |to the desired|OFF {As Desired|ON SHY NA ACON_ |OFF speed temperature 104  CLIMATE CONTROL Fully Automatic Temperature Control (FATC) Adjusted By Infotainment System i B42 6 f Phone Setup Settings AC set in Auto mode FATC settings on Head Unit 105  106  PRE DRIVING CHECKS Make Sure That + Windshield, windows, mirrors, lights, and reflectors are clean and unob- structed. * Tool kit, jack & handle, warning trian- gle, owner’s manual, first aid kit and vehicle documents are available and stored at their

trian- gle, owner’s manual, first aid kit and vehicle documents are available and stored at their locations. AX WARNING Do not put any mat on the floor carpet near control pedals area. + All doors, engine bonnet and tail gate are securely closed and latched. + All occupants should always wear seat belts or suitable CRS as applicable while travelling. * Objects, luggage or loads are se-cured correctly against slipping or tipping. + Rear seat is securely latched. + There is sufficient fuel for the trip. Daily Check + Tyres for unusual wear, cracks or dam- age and embedded foreign material such as nails, stones, etc. * Traces of fluid and oil below vehicle. Water dripping below the car is normal. This is due to the usage of air condition- ing system. + All lamps, wipers, wiper blades and horn for proper operation. + All switches, gauges and tell tales are working properly. Adjust + Seats, head restraints and steering wheel position. + Adjust all the mirrors before you start the car.

head restraints and steering wheel position. + Adjust all the mirrors before you start the car. Weekly Check + Engine oil level * Coolant level * Brake fluid level NOTE STARTING AND DRIVING Windshield washer fluid level Battery electrolyte level Fuel level Tyre pressure should always be meas- ured in cold conditions. Do a check of the tyre pressure and condition after every 15 days, including the spare tyre. 107  STARTING AND DRIVING DRIVING TIPS Fuel consumption, engine, transmission, brake and tyre wear are mainly affected by the below factors: * Operating conditions of your vehicle + Your personal driving style Operating Conditions + Avoid frequent starts and stops as these actions increase the fuel con- sumption of the vehicle. + Always ensure correct tyre pressure. + Do not carry any unnecessary weight. + Regularly service your vehicle and ad- here to the recommended service maintenance schedule. Personal Driving Style + Do not press the accelerator pedal when starting the

maintenance schedule. Personal Driving Style + Do not press the accelerator pedal when starting the engine. + Do not warm up the engine when the vehicle is stationary. + Always adapt your driving style to suit the prevailing road, weather condi- tions, and maintain a safe distance from the vehicle in front. Drive care- 108 fully. + Avoid frequent, sudden acceleration and braking. + Select appropriate gear according to varying speeds and load conditions. @NOTE Do not rest your foot on the clutch pedal while driving. + Switch ‘OFF’ the engine in stationary traffic or at signals. + Keep an eye on the vehicle’s fuel con- sumption. + Safety systems are merely aids de- signed to assist driving. You are re- sponsible for the distance between the vehicles in front, for vehicle speed and anticipating braking in good time. A\ WARNING + You could lose control of your vehi- cle if you try to adjust the driver's seat, head restraint, mirror, steering wheel and fasten the seat belt while driving.

the driver's seat, head restraint, mirror, steering wheel and fasten the seat belt while driving. There is a risk of an acci- dent. Press the clutch fully while shifting the gears. The reverse gear should be engaged only when the vehicle is stationary. Trans-mission may get damage by trying to shift into re- verse gear while the vehicle is mov- ing. Wait for 5 seconds after declutching to ensure smooth en- gagement of the reverse gear or shift into one of the forward gears for a moment while clutch is pressed fully. This will avoid grinding of re- verse gear while shifting.  Recommended Fuel Economy Speeds 20 35 55 75 a} &} wo) NM) = 95 Good Driving Practices Slow down before you shift to a lower gear. This helps the engine to keep a lower rpm and result in less wear and tear of the engine components. Avoid frequent brake application which can cause overheating of brakes. Slow down the vehicle when you drive in cross winds to get better control over the vehicle. Avoid high speed when

vehicle when you drive in cross winds to get better control over the vehicle. Avoid high speed when cornering or turning. Press the clutch fully while shifting gears. + Make sure that vehicle is completely stationary before you attempt to shift in reverse gear. * Drive slowly on wet roads. + You can get extra braking from the en- gine by shifting to a lower gear. This can help you to maintain a safe speed and prevent your brakes from over- heating specially while going down a hill. Tips For Obtaining Better Fuel Effi- ciency + Always maintain the specified tyre pressure during fuel top-ups and also before a long trip. Vehicle running with low tyre pressure will consume more fuel than the one running with specified tyre pressure. + Keep the vehicle clean. Get rid of the unwanted stuff lying in the boot etc., to reduce weight. + Regularly inspect your vehicle for any leakages, worn out wires, damaged by rat bites etc. + Always follow periodic & regular serv- STARTING AND DRIVING ice

wires, damaged by rat bites etc. + Always follow periodic & regular serv- STARTING AND DRIVING ice schedule of the vehicle. In places with high dust content. Clean the air filter element at every 5000 km. Anticipate the road conditions and drive in a smooth manner. Do not accelerate excessively when you are in lower gears (1 or 2"). Be gentle on the accelerator when you are in traffic. In lower gears, opening up the throttle will increase the engine rpm while keeping the vehicle at lower speeds. This reduces the fuel effi- ciency of the vehicle. Be in the maximum possible higher gear at a given speed. This reduces the engine operating speeds which means the engine is running at lower rpm (Revolutions per Minute) for the same vehicle speed. Lesser the num- ber of engine revolution lesser the fuel burned. Avoid harsh braking. Maintain healthy driving habits & while decelerating, do coasting in gear and not in neutral or with clutch pedal pressed. 109  STARTING AND DRIVING + Use the car

in gear and not in neutral or with clutch pedal pressed. 109  STARTING AND DRIVING + Use the car AC only when you require. For cooling, keep the blower speeds low, as at higher blower speeds, the AC consumes more electric power which is ultimately drawn from engine by burning fuel. + Avoid unnecessary extra electrical loading on the car. + Stop the engine wisely at traffic sig- nals. Switch ‘OFF’ the engine at the traffic signal only if the stoppage time is high (typically more than 30 sec). + When you drive on highways, close all the windows. This reduces the drag on the vehicle and improves fuel effi- ciency. + Do not over speed. Follow the speed limits. With increasing speed, the en- gine rpm increases to overcome exter- nal air resistance and this reduces fuel efficiency. Running-in Period The purpose of running in a car is to give time for the mechanical parts to settle so that they work efficiently. This involves gentle acceleration and not revving the en- 110 gine too much.

they work efficiently. This involves gentle acceleration and not revving the en- 110 gine too much. This is done by changing gears early for the first 1,500 — 1,800 km. This will increase the life of the engine. The more you look after the engine when it is new, the more satisfied you will be with its performance in the future. Do not exceed the following road speeds during running in period. 1 20 2 35 3 55 4 75 5 95 Avoid heavy loads, e.g. driving at full throt- le, during this period. Change gears judi- ciously. @NOTE Avoid excessive revving up of engine rpm. Do not keep engine at idling for long duration. SEAT ADJUSTMENTS Front Seat Adjustments Following seat adjustments can be carried out manually. Backrest recliner adjustment lever 2. Seat height adjustment lever (if avail- able) 3. Seat forward / rearward adjustment lever A\ WARNING  Do not adjust the driver’s seat while driving. Adjusting the seat while driving could cause the driver to lose control of the vehicle. Seat

Adjusting the seat while driving could cause the driver to lose control of the vehicle. Seat Backrest Angle Adjustment To change the seat back rest angle, lean forward slightly and pull up the lever (1). Adjust seat backrest until it reaches de- sired comfortable position. Make sure that lever returns to its original position and seat is securely latched. Adjust the seat backrest until your arms are slightly angled when holding the steering wheel. A\ WARNING Do not travel in a moving vehicle with the seat backrest in an excessively re- clined position as this can be danger- ous. Seat Height Adjustment (if available) To raise the seat, pull and continue pump- ing the lever (2) in the upward direction until the seat is at the desired height. To lower the seat, pump the lever down- ward until the seat is at desired height. Seat Forward/rearward Adjustment Lift lever (3) and slide the seat forward or to the rear. Release lever and make sure that seat is securely latched. @ NOTE Adjust the

or to the rear. Release lever and make sure that seat is securely latched. @ NOTE Adjust the driver seat position in such a way that the driver will be able to oper- ate the control pedals comfortably. STARTING AND DRIVING Head Restraint (if available) Adjust the head restraint so that it is as close to the head as possible and the cen- ter of the head restraint supports the back of the head at eye level. This will reduce the risk of injury to the head and neck in the event of an accident or similar situa- tion. 111  STARTING AND DRIVING Correctly adjusted | Incorrectly adjusted | Incorrectly adjusted A\ WARNING Do not drive the vehicle without the seat head restraints. Head restraints are in- tended to help reduce injuries during an accident. Front Passenger Seat Sensor An occupant detection sensor is installed in the front passenger seat to detect whether the seat is occupied or not and if occupied, it will activate the seat belt re- minder warnings. The sensor does not have any

and if occupied, it will activate the seat belt re- minder warnings. The sensor does not have any control on the deployment of airbags. A\ WARNING Any modification in the seat material or addition of seat cover may damage or 112 affect the performance of the sensor. Rear seat folding Rear Seat Folding (complete Seat Rear Seats 100%)  To fold the seat: Press the backrest release knobs pro- vided on both sides at the same time. Fold the backrest seat forward. Move the driver and front passenger seat for- ward if necessary. WARNING If the rear bench seat and seat backrest are not latched properly, they could fold forwards during hard braking or in the event of a collision. The vehicle occupant would thereby be pushed into the seat belt by the rear bench seat or by the seat back- rest. The seat belt can no longer offer the intended level of protection and could even cause injuries. STARTING AND DRIVING Objects or loads in the trunk cannot be restrained by the seat backrest. There is an

AND DRIVING Objects or loads in the trunk cannot be restrained by the seat backrest. There is an increased risk of injury. Before every trip, make sure that the seat backrests and the rear bench seat/rear seat are engaged and se- curely latched. 113  STARTING AND DRIVING REAR VIEW MIRRORS Inside Rear View Mirror (IRVM) To adjust the mirror move the mirror up, down or sideways manually to obtain the best rear view. When you drive at night, set the selector tab to select anti-glare mode (if available) to reduce glare from the headlights of ve- hicles behind you. 114 Use antiglare position only when neces- Sary, as it reduces rear view clarity. Outer Rear View Mirrors (ORVM) You can adjust the outer rear view mirrors manually (By hand) or remotely by knob. Adjust the outside rear view mirrors to de- sired position. @NOTE Objects visible in mirror are actually closer than they appear. Always make sure of the actual distance from the road users traveling behind by glancing over your

Always make sure of the actual distance from the road users traveling behind by glancing over your shoulder. Motorized ORVM Adjustment (if avail- able) The switch to adjust the motorized mirrors is located on the driver’s door. You can ad- just the mirrors when the ignition switch is in the “ACC” or “ON” position. To Adjust The Mirrors: 1. Move the mirror selection switch to L (for left side) and R (for right side) to select the mirror you wish to ad-just. 2. Use the four positions of the knob to adjust the rear view mirrors to required position.  ORVM FOLDING (as applicable) Option 1: Manual Folding ORVMs can be folded or unfolded manu- ally. This is applicable only for vehicles which are not equipped with motorized folding provision. Option 2: Auto Folding By Smart Key When you lock the vehicle, ORVMs will be folded automatically. When you unlock the vehicle, ORVMs will be unfolded automatically. In case to repeated usage, Mirror Fold- ing/Un-folding will stop functioning and will

In case to repeated usage, Mirror Fold- ing/Un-folding will stop functioning and will STARTING AND DRIVING be reactivated after delay of 2 mins. Dur- ing that period avoid repeated pressing of Switch. Option 3: Auto Folding By Knob To fold / unfold the ORVMs, keep the Se- lector switch in center position (i.e. neither ‘L’ nor ‘R, position) and then toggle down. This will operate when the ignition switch is in the “ACC” or “ON” position. 115  STARTING AND DRIVING SUN VISORS (if available) The sun visors can be pulled down to block the glare coming through the wind- shield. To block the glare from side windows, pull down the sun visor and release it from re- tainer. Swing the sun visor to the side. Vanity Mirror (if available) Vanity mirror is provided on the back of the front passenger side sun visor. 116 ELECTRIC POWER ASSISTED STEERING (EPAS) Steering System is tuned in such a way that steering effort will slightly get heavy at high speed to have better control on vehi- cle whereas

steering effort will slightly get heavy at high speed to have better control on vehi- cle whereas it will get lighter at low speed to reduce the driver effort in parking. In EPAS system, the steering effort be- comes heavier as the vehicle speed in- creases and becomes lighter as the vehicle speed decreases for better control of the vehicle at different vehicle speeds. If the engine is ‘OFF’ or if the EPAS sys- tem becomes inoperative, the vehicle still can be steered with more steering effort. This EPAS system is available with the fol- lowing assist features 1. Speed sensitive assist control 2. Active return control NOTE + Aclick noise may be heard from the EPAS relay after the ignition switch is turned ON or OFF position. + The steering wheel may not un-lock normally in some cases when igni- tion key turned ‘ON’ or ‘ISS’ button pressed. If this happens, turn the steering wheel to the right or left slightly to unlock the steering wheel while turning the ignition key or pressing ISS

right or left slightly to unlock the steering wheel while turning the ignition key or pressing ISS button. * Contact the nearest TATA author- ized service center if in case of the above scenarios. WARNING Below are the symptoms of the system malfunction. Then, take your vehicle to the nearest TATA MOTORS service center and have the EPAS system checked as soon as possible. + The EPAS warning lamp illuminate. + EPAS motor noise may be heard when the vehicle is driven at low speeds. + If the EPAS system does not oper- ate normally, the warning light will il  luminate on the instrument cluster. The steering wheel rotation may be- come difficult to control or operate. STEERING WHEEL ADJUSTMENT You can adjust the steering wheel position to suit your convenience. The Tilt lever is located offset to the steer- ing column. To Adjust The Steering Wheel 1. Adjust the seat to a comfortable posi- tion. Push “Tilt lever” completely down to unlock the steering column. Adjust the steering wheel to

tion. Push “Tilt lever” completely down to unlock the steering column. Adjust the steering wheel to the de- sired position. 4. a STARTING AND DRIVING Pull Tilt lever up completely to lock the steering column. Make sure that steering wheel is fixed at desired position by gently pushing the wheel in up & down direction. After adjustment, sometimes the lock Tilt lever may not lock the steer- ing wheel. It is not a malfunction; this occurs when there is mismatch in gear teeth engagement of tilt mecha- nism. In this case adjust the steering wheel again & then lock the Steering wheel. @ NOTE When adjusting the steering wheel, make sure that: You can operate control pedals without any obstacles. You can see all the displays in the instrument cluster clearly. 117  STARTING AND DRIVING A\ WARNING Before you start the car, make sure the steering wheel position is locked. Do not unlock or adjust the steering wheel while the vehicle is in motion. @ NOTE + To prevent serious accidents , the

the steering wheel while the vehicle is in motion. @ NOTE + To prevent serious accidents , the steering effort may Increase sud- denly in case if the operation of the EPAS system detects Malfunction during self diagnosis. + When steered for a prolonged pe- riod, the steering effort will increase to prevent overheating and damage to the steering system. STEERING LOCK AND IGNITION SWITCH (if available) The ignition switch has the following four positions: LOCK - This is the normal parking posi- tion. Key from lock can be removed in this position only. “LOCK” position prevents normal use of the steering wheel after the key is re- moved. To release the steering lock, put the key in the slot and turn it clockwise to one click (ACC). ACC - Accessories such as the infotain- ment system can be operated, but the en- gine remains ‘OFF’. Steering gets unlocked. ON - This is the normal operating position. All electrical systems are ‘ON’. START - Turn the key further clockwise to the START

position. All electrical systems are ‘ON’. START - Turn the key further clockwise to the START position, (spring loaded) to start the engine. As soon as the engine starts, release the ignition key, which re- turns to ON position. While cranking, all accessories will be momentarily ‘OFF’. Illuminated Key Ring (if available) When the vehicle is unlocked, the illumi- nated key ring glows. This helps to locate ignition switch in the dark.  STARTING AND STOPPING (with- out PEPS) Starting The Engine Make sure that parking brake is engaged and vehicle is in neutral gear. Press the clutch pedal fully and crank the engine. Do not press the accelerator pedal when starting the engine. @ NOTE La The Starter protection system fit- ted in this vehicle does not allow you to crank the engine until you fully press the clutch pedal. Release the key as soon as the engine starts. Repeat if engine does not start. + The Starter protection system switches off the starter when it is continuously cranked for

start. + The Starter protection system switches off the starter when it is continuously cranked for more than 10 secs. In such a case, get the key back to ‘OFF’ position & wait for 30 secs. + For vehicle equipped with tur- bocharger, after you start the en- gine, run the engine at idle speed for 30 seconds. Do not press accel- erator pedal while starting the en- gine to avoid damage to the turbocharger. Starting Off To start off, press the clutch pedal fully and shift into 1st gear. After releasing the parking brake, gradu- ally release the clutch and slowly press the accelerator. @ NOTE When shifting or starting off, do not race the engine. Racing the engine can shorten engine life and affect smooth shifting. Stopping The Vehicle For vehicle equipped with turbocharger, turn the key to ‘ACC’ position to switch off STARTING AND DRIVING the engine. Before switching off the en- gine, run the engine at idle speed for 30 seconds and then switch off. This will allow the engine oil to

run the engine at idle speed for 30 seconds and then switch off. This will allow the engine oil to lubricate the turbocharger, till its speed is fully reduced and also allow the unit to cool down. A\ WARNING + Do not switch off the ignition while driving. + For vehicle equipped with tur- bocharger, do not switch the engine off when it is running at high speed. This will lead to premature tur- bocharger bearing wear. + If you switch off the ignition while driving, safety-relevant functions are only available with limitations, or not at all. This could affect the power steering and the brake boosting ef- fect. You will require considerably more effort to steer and brake. There is a risk of an accident. 119  STARTING AND DRIVING STARTING AND STOPPING (PEPS) (if available) Engine Passive Start/stop i Start/Stop switch is provided on the dash- board towards the right side of steering wheel. Start/stop Button The start/stop button or Push to Start But- ton is a main component of Passive

Start/stop Button The start/stop button or Push to Start But- ton is a main component of Passive (En- gine) Start and Stop system. It is used to control ACC, IGN outputs as well as to start and stop the engine. 120 @NOTE + If smart key is inside the vehicle and on pressing start stop switch, if start stop switch green LED blinks more than 10 sec. duration then contact authorized TATA MOTORS dealer. + If ESCL (Electronic Column Steer- ing Lock) is not unlocked properly, then vehicle doesn’t go into ACC mode Backup Start To start the engine when smart key battery voltage is low, the user needs to press start/stop button two times with an interval of 2.5 seconds after pressing the clutch with valid smart key near immobilizer an- tenna (on key symbol in Centre Console). Emergency Start if the engine is switched from ON to OFF and start/stop button is pressed with clutch pressed within 5 seconds, engine gets cranked. @ NOTE If ESCL (Electronic Column Steering Lock) is not unlocked

5 seconds, engine gets cranked. @ NOTE If ESCL (Electronic Column Steering Lock) is not unlocked properly, then En- gine will not get cranked.  ENGINE PASSIVE START - CONDI- TIONS Single Press Start 1. 2. 3. 4. Bring the smart key with you and sit in the driver seat. Press the clutch pedal and then press the start/stop switch. Green colour LED on start/stop button will turn ON. Once engine is started successfully, he green colour LED on start/stop but- ‘on stays ON. Two Step Start Step 1 1. 3. 4. Have the smart key with you and sit on he driver's seat. Press the start/stop button without pressing clutch pedal. Amber colour LED on start/stop switch urns ON. Engine will remain OFF and all electri- cal equipment and infotainment sys- em can be used. Steering is un-locked. Step 2 1. Three Step Start Step 1 1. Press the clutch pedal and then press start/stop button to start the engine. Green colour LED on start/stop button will turn ON. Once engine start successfully, green colour LED on

colour LED on start/stop button will turn ON. Once engine start successfully, green colour LED on start/stop switch will re- main ON. Have the smart key with you and sit on the driver's seat. Press the start/stop button without pressing clutch pedal. Amber colour LED on start/stop button will turn ON. Limited information will be dis-played on instrument cluster and steering will be unlocked. Engine remains OFF. Step 2 1. Press the start/stop button without pressing clutch pedal again. Green colour LED on start/stop button will turn ON. 3. STARTING AND DRIVING Engine will remain OFF but all electri- cal equipment and infotainment sys- tem can be used. Step 3 1. 2. Press the clutch pedal and then press start/stop button to start the engine. Green colour LED on start/stop button will turn ON. Once the engine is started success- fully, the green colour LED on start/stop button stays ON. 121  STARTING AND DRIVING ENGINE PASSIVE STOP - CONDI- TIONS Single Press Stop + IGN is ON and engine

STARTING AND DRIVING ENGINE PASSIVE STOP - CONDI- TIONS Single Press Stop + IGN is ON and engine is running. + Press the start/stop button with or with- out clutch. + ACC and IGN turns OFF. + LED on start/stop switch turns OFF. Single Long Press Stop + IGN is ON and engine is running. + Vehicle is in running condition i.e. wheel rpm >10 RPM or wheel sensor faulty. + Press the start/stop button for more than three seconds. +« IGN returns OFF, ACC remains ON. + Amber colour LED on start/stop switch turns ON. A\ WARNING When vehicle is in OFF mode (ACC, IGN and Crank OFF) and user tries to lock the vehicle from outside by press 122 ing any door handle switch and if PEPS detects that the smart key is left inside the vehicle, an audio warning/ chime is sounded. If clutch pedal is pressed for more than 3 minutes, then release the clutch/brake pedal and again press clutch/brake pedal with start stop button to crank the engine. GEAR SHIFTING The gearshift pattern is as shown on the gear

start stop button to crank the engine. GEAR SHIFTING The gearshift pattern is as shown on the gear lever knob. Gear shifting should al- ways be done with the clutch pedal fully pressed. L) NOTE * Gear recommendation is dis-played when the clutch pedal is fully re- leased. + If “F’ is displayed in DIS of instru- ment cluster, it means ‘Fault’ condi- tion. Contact TATA MOTORS  Authorized Dealer/Service Center. Press the clutch fully when gear shifting. The reverse gear should be engaged only when the vehicle is stationary. Use the clutch only to shift gears and do not use it when vehicle is stationary on a slope, as the car will roll down due to gravity. If all doors are closed when the ve- hicle is in ACCIGN/RUN mode and if PEPS does not detect the smart key inside the car, then an audio warning is given. Do not rest your hand on the shift lever during driving; Pressure trans- mitted from your hand may result in premature wear of the transaxle in- ternal gear shift mechanism REVERSE

your hand may result in premature wear of the transaxle in- ternal gear shift mechanism REVERSE GEAR To engage reverse gear, shift to reverse position as shown on the gear lever knob. STARTING AND DRIVING DRIVING Climbing Sharp Gradients On Loose Surfaces Start off smoothly in a suitable gear. Accel- erate smoothly so that there is no loss of traction by over-revving of the engine. Choose a smooth slope and select the ap- propriate gear so that gear changing in the middle of the climb is not required. Changing gears in the middle of the climb can cause loss of momentum and engine stalling. Shifting to lower gear has to be done cautiously to avoid loss of traction. Under no conditions should the vehicle be moved diagonally across a hill. The dan- ger is in loss of traction and side-ways slip- page, possibly resulting in toppling over. If unavoidable, choose a mild angle and keep the vehicle moving. If the tyres start to slip within few feet at the end of the climb, keep the vehicle

moving. If the tyres start to slip within few feet at the end of the climb, keep the vehicle sta- ble by steering left and right. It gives in- creased grip to the tyres. If the vehicle stalls or losses headway while climbing a steep hill, make a quick 123  STARTING AND DRIVING shift to reverse and allow the vehicle to move back with the help of engine brak- ing. Descending Sharp Gradients Depending on the severity of the gradient, shift into appropriate gear. Use engine braking judiciously without over-revving the engine. Brake gently in such situations. A\ WARNING When descending on sharp gradients, do not turn the ignition key to the ‘OFF’ position. The braking assist and steer- ing assist may malfunction and the emission control system may be dam- aged. 124 AUTOMATED MANUAL TRANSMIS- SION (AMT) ([f fitted) lg Transmission (AMT) Gearbox offers a choice of three driving modes: 1. Automated mode with the gear lever in position ‘A’. 2. Manual mode with the gear lever in po- sition ‘M’.

mode with the gear lever in position ‘A’. 2. Manual mode with the gear lever in po- sition ‘M’. Starting 1. Engage the parking brake firmly. Press Brake pedal. 2. Put the ignition ‘ON’ 3. While the brake pedal is pressed, bring the shifter lever to Neutral - ‘N’. Check ‘N on instrument cluster. Crank to start the engine with the brake pedal still pressed. NOTE If push button is pressed with brake pedal is pressed and gear is in A mode, the vehicle will not start. It will start within 10 seconds if gear shifter is moved from A to N with the brake pedal  continuously pressed.” Stopping The vehicle can be stopped by depressing the brake pedal regardless of the gear po- sition. This is because the clutch is auto- matically disengaged to prevent the engine from stalling. If the gearshift lever is in the ‘A’ position, the gear will be down shifted to ‘1st’ when the vehicle stops. Also, if the gearshift lever is in the ‘M’ position, the gear will be down shifted to ‘1st’ when the vehicle

the gearshift lever is in the ‘M’ position, the gear will be down shifted to ‘1st’ when the vehicle stops. @ NOTE ‘Auto’ mode will give optimum engine Torque and Power output. Drive the ve- hicle in ‘Auto’ mode to get max fuel economy. Exhaust fan in the engine compartment will remain ‘ON’ for a short while after IGN is switched ‘OFF’. Gear Shifter Driving Modes Neutral Vehicle is in neutral gear position. This will be indicated IN on instrument cluster. WARNING + Always make sure to keep the gear shift lever in the “N” position, when the engine is running and vehicle is stationary. + Donot shift the lever in “N” position, even momentarily, when the vehicle STARTING AND DRIVING is in motion. Reverse Reverse gear will be engaged only when vehicle is stationary and brake pedal pressed. An audio signal indicates when reverse gear is engaged. will be indi- cated on instrument cluster. 125  STARTING AND DRIVING Auto Mode Manual Mode Push the gearshift lever to the ‘+’ direction Auto mode

STARTING AND DRIVING Auto Mode Manual Mode Push the gearshift lever to the ‘+’ direction Auto mode will be engaged only when ve- hicle is stationary and brake peda pressed. An audio signal indicates when Automatic gear is engaged. EX will be in- dicated in instrument cluster. Gear Upshift and Downshift will be done automatically while driving. Shift gear lever to left for engaging manua mode. An audio signal indicates when manual mode is engaged KL will be in- dicated in instrument cluster. In manual mode, driver should select the desired gear by shifting lever to, + Upshift the gears. - Downshift the gears. and release it. Every time the lever is op- erated, upshifting takes place 1 step in the order of 18> 24> 34> 4th > 5th gear. Pull the gearshift lever to the ‘~’ direction and release it. Every time the lever is op- erated, downshifting takes place in the order 5" > 4th > 34> 204 > 18 gear. @ NOTE Down shifting of gear occurs automati- cally while braking/engine rpm reduc- tion.

18 gear. @ NOTE Down shifting of gear occurs automati- cally while braking/engine rpm reduc- tion. In manual mode, gears are not shifted au- tomatically unless the engine RPM thresh- old is reached. Creeping Feature Creeping function allows the car move- ment without accelerator Pedal pressed when the brake pedal is released. 126  This functionality is generally used in park- ing maneuvers, with 1st or ‘R’ gear en- gaged, in this situations the driver enters and exits from creeping just by pressing the Acc. pedal. @ NOTE Creeping function will not operate when vehicle is in standstill condition on in- clined surface. * Creep feature is enabled for Manual as well as Auto Mode for first and reverse gear. + After vehicle cranking and brake pedal released vehicle starts moving without pressing accelerator Pedal. + Whenever accelerator pedal is pressed creep function will be dis- abled. + Whenever driver door is opened and / or parking brake is engaged, creep function will be disabled.

Whenever driver door is opened and / or parking brake is engaged, creep function will be disabled. Kick Down Feature In Automatic mode, while driving at a con- stant speed if the accelerator pedal is quickly pressed the AMT downshifts the gear (if required). It ensures optimum ac- celeration to complete overtaking in mini- mal time. STARTING AND DRIVING Driving 1. With the engine running and brake pedal pressed, depending on your re- quirement shift the lever on R, D or M. Check the position engaged on the In- strument Cluster display. N Release the parking brake. Release the brake pedal and press the accelerator pedal gently. Use right foot only to operate brake or accelerator pedal. Do not operate accelerator and brake pedal simultaneously. Do not use your left leg to operate the pedals while driving AMT vehicle. @ NOTE If il displayed on the Instrument Clus- ter display, it means ‘Fault condition. Contact a TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre immediately. » 127  STARTING AND

‘Fault condition. Contact a TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre immediately. » 127  STARTING AND DRIVING Amt Instruction Sticker Follow the instructions provided on the sticker before driving the vehicle. Parking AMT does not have a parking position. The vehicle can be parked with the gearshift lever in any position. 1. Apply the parking brake firmly. 2. Press the brake pedal and shift the gearshift lever to the ‘R’ position on a downhill slope, or to the Auto ‘A’ mode or the ‘M’ position in the manual ‘M’ mode on an uphill slope or flat road 128 and confirm the gear position by checking the gear position indicator on instrument cluster. Gear engagement (R or A) can be done with ignition ON/engine running condition only. Turn the key to ‘ACC’ position to switch off the engine. Before switching off the engine, run the engine in idle condition for at least 30 seconds and then switch off. This will allow the engine oil to lu- bricate the turbocharger, till its speed is fully reduced

This will allow the engine oil to lu- bricate the turbocharger, till its speed is fully reduced and also allow the unit to cool down. A\ WARNING A quick burst on the accelerator before turning off the engine serves absolutely no practical purpose, it wastes fuel and is damaging especially to turbocharged engine. A\ WARNING Do not switch the engine off when it is running at high speed. This will lead to premature turbocharger bearing wear. x @ NOTE The AMT vehicle will shift itself into Neutral as a precautionary measure, if the vehicle is stationary and one or both of the front wheels spin on a low friction surface (e.g. Snow, mud, soft sand etc). AMT symbol will glow in the instrument cluster indicating an intervention from the Transmission Control Unit. Following steps need to be carried out sequentially in order to manoeuvre the vehicle in such a situation. 1. Shift the gear shift lever to Neutral position and switch the ignition off. 2. Press the brake pedal and crank the engine

to Neutral position and switch the ignition off. 2. Press the brake pedal and crank the engine again. 3. With the engine running, shift the gear position in Auto mode. 4. March the vehicle with low input from the accelerator pedal as this will ensure that the wheels do not spin.  STARTING AND DRIVING Driving (AMT) Climbing Sharp Gradients Apply the parking brake firmly so that the vehicle does not roll backwards. Shift the gearshift lever to the “A” position while depressing the brake pedal. Make sure that the gear position indicator in the instrument cluster displays ‘1st’ gear. Release the brake pedal and depress the accelerator pedal gradually, and when the vehicle starts to move, release the parking brake and depress the accelerator pedal to start off. On climbing sharp gradients, never hold the vehicle at a stop using only the accel- erator pedal or the creeping function. If you perform this operation for a certain pe- riod of time, this can also cause excessive damage to the

perform this operation for a certain pe- riod of time, this can also cause excessive damage to the clutch. AX WARNING Try not to hold the brake pedal down too long or too often while going down a steep or long hill. This could cause the brakes to over- heat, resulting in reduced braking effi- ciency. Failure to take this precaution could result in loss of vehicle control. Descending Sharp Gradients Depress the brake pedal and shift the gear shift lever to the ‘A’ position. Make sure that the gear position indicator in the in- strumental cluster displays ‘1st’ gear. Release the brake pedal and depress the accelerator pedal slowly. Even if the accel- erator pedal is not depressed, the clutch will be engaged when the vehicle speed increases. WARNING When descending on sharp gradients, NEVER turn the ignition key to the ‘OFF’ position. Emission control system damage may result. STARTING THE ENGINE Make sure that parking brake is engaged and vehicle is in neutral gear. Press the clutch

THE ENGINE Make sure that parking brake is engaged and vehicle is in neutral gear. Press the clutch pedal fully and crank the engine. Do not press the accelerator pedal when starting the engine. Release the key as soon as the engine starts. Repeat if engine does not start. A\ WARNING The engine emits poisonous exhaust gases such as carbon monoxide. Inhal- ing these exhaust gases leads to poi- soning. There is a risk of serious health problems. Therefore, never leave the engine running in enclosed spaces without sufficient ventilation. After starting, run the engine in idle speed for at least 30 seconds. Do not press accelerator pedal while starting the engine to avoid damage to tur- bocharger. 129  STARTING AND DRIVING BRAKING Your vehicle has vacuum assisted brakes. The distance needed to bring the vehicle to a halt increases with the speed of the vehicle. Start applying brake anticipating the distance and slow down gradually. A\ WARNING + Do not use the brake pedal as a footrest. +

the distance and slow down gradually. A\ WARNING + Do not use the brake pedal as a footrest. + If you rest your foot on the brake pedal while driving, the braking sys- em can overheat and cause fading of brake pads. This in-creases the stopping distance and can even cause the braking system to fail. There is a risk of an accident. + Do not press the brake pedal and he accelerator pedal at the same ime. If you have driven for a long time in heavy rain without braking, there may be a de- layed reaction from the brakes when you brake for the first time. This may also occur after the vehicle has been washed. 130 Brake performance may become poor and unpredictable if brakes are wet. After you drive through water or if you wash the underside of the vehicle, test the brakes at slow speeds to see if the brakes work fine. If the brakes are less effective than normal, dry them by repeatedly ap- plying the brakes at slow speeds until the brakes have regained their normal effec- tiveness. Check

plying the brakes at slow speeds until the brakes have regained their normal effec- tiveness. Check traffic conditions before doing the above activity. Braking On Downhill Gradients When you drive on downhill slopes, re- duce the load on the brakes by shifting to a lower gear. This is called as engine brak- ing and aids to reduce overheating and wear of brakes. A\ WARNING + Donot shift to lower gears on a slip- pery road surface to in-crease the engine’s braking effect. By doing so, the tyres could lose their grip. There is an increased danger of skidding and accidents.  DRIVE MODE Drive mode selection These modes can be used to adjust en- gine characteristics and vehicle perform- ance in line with desired requirement. Drive mode selection switch is provided on center console for activation. According Engine type the car is equipped with ‘City’ (Default) and ‘Eco’. City is being default mode in each ignition cycle. Drive Mode Performance Increased engine CITY Torque and Power output

mode in each ignition cycle. Drive Mode Performance Increased engine CITY Torque and Power output for BAL- ANCED perform- ance Optimum engine Torque and Power output for FUEL EFFICIENT per- formance STARTING AND DRIVING CURRENT GEAR INDICATION The Driver Information display (DIS) in the Instrument Cluster indicates the current gear position engaged. & or Ml. 131  STARTING AND DRIVING GEAR RECOMMENDATION Up or down arrow will be displayed in DIS, recommending whenever gear should be shifted to up or down CM or ED 132  IDLE STOP START (ISS) (if avail- able) Idle Stop Start system is a Green Environ- ment initiative. Your vehicle is equipped with fuel saving ISS feature to shut off the engine to con- serve fuel and emit less carbon dioxide. STARTING AND DRIVING Vehicle exceeds velocity threshold Engine run vehicle standstill Le >> BS >> lam >> Se ue Gear lever Engine in neutral Auto Stop clutch released » ”»'e, Clutch pedal is pressed is pressed vehicle in standstill ¥% > Engine is

clutch released » ”»'e, Clutch pedal is pressed is pressed vehicle in standstill ¥% > Engine is Clutch pedal is started is pressed ISS function 133  STARTING AND DRIVING Working Starting the vehicle initially will be by con- ventional method (key start or push button start). When the vehicle is stationary and engine is idle (in a traffic light, traffic jam, toll gate, etc.) it will turn-off automatically. When the clutch pedal is pressed, the en- gine will restart automatically. Engine may also restart automatically without Clutch pedal press due to other preconditions which are captured below. Sequence Of Functions 1. Vehicle started through Ignition key or Push button switch. 2. Vehicle is in standstill and Engine is running. 3. Vehicle moves forward and exceeds speed threshold values. 4. When vehicle is to be stopped (sce- nario: Red signal), press the brake and then, press the clutch. The vehicle comes to a halt. Shift the gear to neu- tral and release the clutch. Engine will be

The vehicle comes to a halt. Shift the gear to neu- tral and release the clutch. Engine will be automatically stopped. 5. When you want to move (Scenario: 134 Green signal), Press Clutch pedal to start. 6. Engine will automatically start when Clutch is pressed fully. This system enables the ISS functions au- tomatically when Ignition is turned ON. If you do not want to use this feature, you can switch it off by pressing the ISS OFF switch provided in the vehicle. @ Following Conditions Will Prevent Iss Function Standby / Not Enabled + Engine hood (bonnet) is open + Reverse Gear is engaged. + Outside temperature is too low or too high + Battery system is unhealthy «Engine coolant temperature is too low + Driver presence is not detected (Seat belt is not fastened) + Driver door is open + Any system fault Warning light will be displayed on the in- strument cluster to indicate the heathy sta- tus of this function. Special Feature Of Automatic Restart This system is equipped with a special

tus of this function. Special Feature Of Automatic Restart This system is equipped with a special fea- ture of Automatic Restart. Under certain conditions, the Engine will automatically restart on its own in order to meet your Safety and Comfort requirements. This can occur especially when the vehicle is standstill and following conditions oc- curred, + Battery is being discharged too low. + Vehicle started rolling forwards/ back- wards + Brake has been pressed repeatedly for several times/brake Pressure too low + When the Cabin temperature is too hot/too cold + Defrost button is pressed  @ NOTE Your vehicle is equipped with ISS function which may automatically Stop and Restart the engine. Do not panic and follow the messages on the display to understand the event. Use an alternator that has been ap- proved by Tata Motors. Otherwise your ISS function may not work. Contact nearest Tata Motors author- ized dealer for alternator replace- ment. ISS will be available only when dri- ver’s

Motors author- ized dealer for alternator replace- ment. ISS will be available only when dri- ver’s seat belt is fastened at all times. Use a battery that has been ap- proved by Tata Motors. Otherwise your ISS function may not work as intended. Contact nearest Tata Mo- tors authorised dealer for battery re- placement or any issues in battery. ISS function may not be active when the Safety (Example: Seat Belt) and Comfort (Example: AC in high demand) conditions are not met. Do not panic and follow the messages on the display to under- stand the event. Do not remove the Battery Sensor from Battery. Removal of Battery sensor will result loss of function. Function will be automatically re- stored when the vehicle is parked for a period of three hours. In the event of traffic, ISS function may work with delay in auto-stop which is intended logic. Use a battery sensor that has been approved by Tata Motors. Otherwise your ISS function may not work as intended. Contact nearest Tata Mo- tors

by Tata Motors. Otherwise your ISS function may not work as intended. Contact nearest Tata Mo- tors authorized dealer for battery sensor replacement. Engine will be automatically started again when the following safety con- ditions are met: driver presence, gear in neutral, bonnet and doors should be closed. In case if any of these criteria are not met, a mes- sage will pop-up on the screen to in STARTING AND DRIVING dicate the user to start the car man- ually. To fill up fuel, the engine must be stopped by turning OFF the ignition key /ISS button. Switch the engine off before you perform any operation in the engine compartment. 135  STARTING AND DRIVING Frequently Asked Questions 1. What are the advantages of this fea- ture? This feature helps to reduce the fuel con- sumption, CO2 emission by automatically shutting down the Engine when the Vehi- cle is in standstill conditions like traffic sig- nal, Traffic jam, etc. 2. When the Vehicle is in Engine Idle stop start Phase, how can |

sig- nal, Traffic jam, etc. 2. When the Vehicle is in Engine Idle stop start Phase, how can | start the Ve- hicle to move? Simply press the Clutch fully down to Start the Vehicle. No need to use Key / Push Start Switch. 3. Can I start the Engine only by press- ing the Clutch Pedal for the first time when | enter in Vehicle? No. Always the first start has to be through Ignition Key or Push button. 4. How can | activate / deactivate this feature? This feature will be active as default when Ignition is ON. If you wish to switch it OFF, press the ISS switch. 136 5. Whether AC will work when the En- gine is in Idle stop start mode? No. AC function will not be available when the Engine is in Idle stop start mode. Only Blower will be functional. 6. How to start the Engine if feeling too hot / too cold when Engine is in Idle stop start mode? In the event of higher temperature differ- ence, Engine will automatically restart without any user input. As an alternate user can start the Vehicle by

will automatically restart without any user input. As an alternate user can start the Vehicle by pressing the Clutch pedal fully. 7. What will happen If press the Clutch continuously in traffic signals? System will not shut down the Engine au- tomatically when the Clutch is pressed continuously. 8. Whether | am allowed to crank the Vehicle normally when the system is in Idle stop start mode? Yes. You can perform the normal cranking by switching off and Switch ON the Ignition Key / Push button. 9. Whether the vehicle will stop and restart when the Vehicle in Gear condi- tion? No. Idle Stop and Start function will not work when the Gear level is not in Neutral. Smart Alternator Management Smart Alternator management (applicable if equipped with Intelligent Alternator Con- trol feature) — a Green Environment initia- tive. Your vehicle is equipped with fuel saving smart alternator management system to recuperate the brake energy to charge the Battery to help conserve fuel, CO2.  STARTING

system to recuperate the brake energy to charge the Battery to help conserve fuel, CO2.  STARTING AND DRIVING Working When the Vehicle is running, if the accel- } t eration demand is higher than threshold, Jp — k av | smart alternator management system will g 11.2V 12V allow the Battery discharge to reduce the load on the Engine. Accelerator Clutch Alternator Battery is pedal pressed —_—closed set point discharged When the Vehicle is in deceleration and 14.2 the accelerator demand is lower than threshold, smart alternator management system recuperates the brake energy and > 14.8V 4 charges the Battery. 4 4 tL 5 Battery discharge and charge behavior is dynamic behavior during the Vehicle run- Accelerator Clutch Alternator Battery is ning. pedal released —_ closed set point charged 14.8V Following Conditions Will Prevent Smart Alternator Function Standby / Not Enabled * Head Lamp ON (Low / High) + Battery System is unhealthy Alternator function + Any System fault. 137  STARTING AND

/ High) + Battery System is unhealthy Alternator function + Any System fault. 137  STARTING AND DRIVING Frequently Asked Questions 1. What are the advantages of this fea- ture? This feature helps to reduce the fuel con- sumption, CO2 emission by balancing the Battery discharge and charge during the Vehicle running. 2. Do | need to adjust my driving pat- tern to enable this function? No. This smart function will automatically perform this smart alternator function and adjust to your driving pattern. 3. Is there any issue to my Battery charging due to this function when | follow aggressive driving cycle? No. This smart function is capable enough to manage the Battery charging according to your drive cycle. 4. Do I see any variation in my head lamp performance when the Battery charge / discharge behavior which is dynamic? No. This smart function will accommodate the charge / discharge behavior according to the head lamp status. 138 5. Do | see any perceivable variation in my system

behavior according to the head lamp status. 138 5. Do | see any perceivable variation in my system function when this function executed? No. This smart function won't create any functional issue to the vehicle sys-tem. You may see some difference in air flow of blower when it is in higher speed when this function is active. But this won't affect the quality of the vehicle function. A\ WARNING Deactivate the Idle Stop Start (ISS) function for any operation to be per- formed in the Engine compartment. PARKING BRAKE Mechanical parking brake acting on the rear wheels is provided on the vehicle. Parking brake applied To apply the parking brake, pull the lever up fully. The parking brake tell-tale light comes on in the instrument cluster.  Parking brake released To release it, pull the lever up slightly, press the release button and push the lever down. The parking brake tell-tale in the instrument cluster will turn ‘OFF’ when the lever is fully released. Apply the parking brake properly

cluster will turn ‘OFF’ when the lever is fully released. Apply the parking brake properly before leaving the vehicle and release it before moving. STARTING AND DRIVING VEHICLE PARKING erate the vehicle’s equipment. There is + Park the vehicle in a safe place. Switch a risk of an accident and injury. on the indicator signal before turning to park. @ NOTE + Apply the parking brake. 7 7 . Do not use parking brake for braking * Make sure that all window glasses are unless unavoidable circumstances like closed and all lamps are turned ‘OFF’. when service brake is not working prop- * At night, put on the parking lights ifre- erly. The braking distance is consider- quired. ably longer and the wheels could lock. + Remove the key from the ignition There is an increased danger of skid- switch and lock the vehicle. ding and accidents. + Use wheel chocks if the vehicle is parked on a slope. When parking on a downhill gradient, place the gear lever in ‘Reverse’ position. While parking on up- hill

on a downhill gradient, place the gear lever in ‘Reverse’ position. While parking on up- hill gradient, place the gear lever in the ‘1st’ position. A\ WARNING Never leave children unsupervised in the parked vehicle. They could also op 139  STARTING AND DRIVING REVERSE PARK ASSIST WITH SENSOR (if available) Reverse Park Assist system is an elec- ronic parking aid that will assist you to park your vehicle safely when in reverse gear mode. It provides audio and visual in- ‘ormation through the vehicles infotain- ment system. Always look out for kids, pets and elderly people behind the vehicle before revers- ing. There are ultrasonic sensors placed on the rear bumper. Number of sensors may vary depending on the variant. Once the system is activated, the sensors will detect how near the obstacle is from 140 the bumper, and this information would be displayed on the vehicle’s infotainment system. In base variants, only audio warn- ing shall be given through a buzzer. WARNING Due to

system. In base variants, only audio warn- ing shall be given through a buzzer. WARNING Due to ultrasonic sensor technology limitation, detection of obstacles from 0- 25 cm is not guaranteed. 25-40 Continuous Beep 41-80 Fast Beep 81-120 Slow Beep Variant where infotainment display is no present and audio warning is given hrough a buzzer, on activating the Re- verse Park Assist system, a tone will be played within first two seconds to indicate he proper functioning of the system. After hese two seconds, normal functioning of he system will continue. If no tone is heard for first two seconds, it shall mean that RPAS system is faulty. The owner should, in that case, go to the nearest dealer for rectification. Park Assist Indications In case reverse park assist system mal- functions, the following message may ap- pear on the infotainment screen. Reason for this fault may be 1. Park Assist Controller / Body Control Module Failure” 2. Sensor Malfunction 3. Partner component such as Reverse

/ Body Control Module Failure” 2. Sensor Malfunction 3. Partner component such as Reverse park assist system is failure. 4 CRITICAL FAULT ——o Park Assist system not available get it rectified by TATA Dealer Operation The reverse park assist system can also be activated manually through infotain- ment screen. Display will be seen on info- tainment screen.  Reverse Park Assist Limitations Reverse Park Assist system is not a colli- sion avoiding system. It is solely the driver’s responsibility to park the vehicle safely. Reverse Park Assist feature works on ultra sound echo technology, due to which per- formance is not guaranteed in following scenarios: if the object has a sharp edge surface, where surface may divert echoes from sensor reception. f object is mesh fence made up of thin wires, where echoes can’t be given by he surface. Fast moving objects passes in the sen- sor’s field of detection, where echoes are not processed by the system. f object is made/covered by foam or sponge or

where echoes are not processed by the system. f object is made/covered by foam or sponge or snow where ultrasonic sound signals are absorbed. Objects close to the rear bumper can go undetected by the Reverse Park Assist’s field of detection. Driver should use extreme caution while parking the vehicle. height of the bumper is changed due 0 alteration to the suspension or other causes the sensor areas are extremely hot rom direct sunlight or cold due to reezing weather. Sensors are covered by a hand, sticker, accessory, etc. ultrasonic noise is present around Vehicle due to other vehicle sensors, horn, engine, air braking system (large vehicles), Exhaust Fans, Wireless ransmitters or mobile phones the vehicle speed exceeds 10kmph, he system will not warn you even hough objects are detected, error message ‘Vehicle Speed is high, drive slowly!’ will appear. Driving on uneven road surfaces e.g. Gravel, unpaved roads, Artificial Speed Breakers, or gradient. Poles of square/rectangular cross

Gravel, unpaved roads, Artificial Speed Breakers, or gradient. Poles of square/rectangular cross sec- tion might not be detected STARTING AND DRIVING A\ WARNING Due to any reason, if the sensor gets misaligned or loses its intended fitment position, contact your dealer for refit- ment. @ NOTE Turning the ignition ‘OFF’ ‘while the park assist feature is active would disable it. Reverse Park Assist System Preven- tive Maintenance + Regularly clean the sensors and keep them free from dust, ice, mud, water, chewing gum etc. for proper working of the system. Use a smooth cloth for cleaning. + Do not use water at high pressure for cleaning the sensor or camera. + Do not cover the sensors surface with any additional fitment. This will inter- rupt park assist performance. * Donot remove mud, snow on the sen- sors using stick or hard material. Use 141  STARTING AND DRIVING normal water and soft cloth. General Warning 1. In low light conditions, the screen may darken or image may appear faint.

cloth. General Warning 1. In low light conditions, the screen may darken or image may appear faint. 2. If the tire sizes are changed, the posi- tion of the fixed guidelines dis-played on the screen may change. 3. In case of damage of the rear portion of the vehicle, Reverse Park Assist sensors position may change which causes wrong visual information on display. In case of damage make sure that Reverse Park Assist sensors are fitted properly at the intended location. 4. In case of uneven road conditions or uphill or downhill conditions, do not de- pend on Reverse Park Assist aid. 5. Do not apply any kind of force on the reverse park assist sensors. 6. Always use rear view mirrors along with Reverse Park Assist for con-firm- ing the safety of the rear and the sur- rounding conditions. 142 REAR VIEW CAMERA (if available) Rear View Camera is a visual reverse guiding system. When reversing or park- ing, make sure that there are no persons, animals or objects in the area where you are

or park- ing, make sure that there are no persons, animals or objects in the area where you are reversing. Display screen Activation Reverse gear This system will start, if reverse gear is en- gaged, or park assist button (if available) is pressed or manual activation is done through Infotainment screen. Deactivation System will stop, if reverse gear is disen- gaged, or park assist button (if available) is pressed. If started through infotainment, the system can be stopped using a cross button on in-  fotainment screen. Understanding Guidelines Indication Green Line You can safely reverse the vehicle, but be cautious if objects fall in this zone. Yellow Line You have to take utmost care if objects fall in this zone. However, the objects may not hit vehicle. Red Line Red line indicates that you have to stop re- versing the vehicle. If you still go back- wards, the car will hit the obstacle. Do’s And Don’t + Do not use camera when tailgate is open. If tailgate is open, visual infor-

Do’s And Don’t + Do not use camera when tailgate is open. If tailgate is open, visual infor- mation may not be the actual rear view of the vehicle & system will warn with message ‘Tail Gate Open, Please close. When the camera is operated under fluorescent lights, sodium light or mer- cury light etc., illuminated areas on the lens may appear to flicker in the dis- play. Do not attach any advertisement or styling or any kind of stickers on top of camera. If this happens, camera can- not provide you the visual image and it may damage the camera. Do not add any accessory, which will cause blockage to the camera’s field of view. Cleaning Camera 1. Due to environmental reasons like snow, dust, mud or fog may accumu- late on the camera lens. So regularly clean the camera lens. Use water to clean the camera lens. Do not use extreme cold or hot water. Rapid changes in temperature may brittle the camera lens. Do not apply A\ WARNING STARTING AND DRIVING High Pressure water for cleaning. Wipe

camera lens. Do not apply A\ WARNING STARTING AND DRIVING High Pressure water for cleaning. Wipe the camera lens with soft cloth. Do not use hard cloth or material to wipe the camera lens. This will cause scratches on the camera, and leads to deteriorated visual image on the dis- play. Do not apply organic solvent, car wax, window cleaner or glass coat to clean the camera. If this is applied, wipe it off as soon as possible. Do not apply heavy force on lens, while cleaning. Do not remove mud, snow on the cam- era lens using stick or hard material. Use normal water and soft cloth. The camera uses fish eye lens. So the size of the objects or in the dis- play may differ from the actual size and distance. In low light conditions, the screen may darken or image may appear faint. 143  STARTING AND DRIVING 144 If the tire sizes are changed, the po- sition of the fixed guidelines dis- played on the screen may change. During rainy conditions, image may get obscured. In such conditions, do not

the screen may change. During rainy conditions, image may get obscured. In such conditions, do not depend on camera view. The camera used in the vehicle, may not reproduce the same color of the real object. In case of damage of the rear por- tion of the vehicle, camera position may change. Which causes wrong visual information on display. In case of damage, make sure that, camera is fitted properly at the in- tended location. In case of uneven road conditions or up-hill or downhill conditions, do not depend on rear view camera park aid. Do not apply any kind of force on the camera. Always use rear View mirrors along with Rear View Camera for confirm- ing the safety of the rear and the surrounding conditions. High humidity and variation in ambi- ent temperature may result into con- densation inside the camera lens, which may further result into degra- dation of camera video feed on the screen. It is recommended that not to rely on camera video feed for parking assistance in such

the screen. It is recommended that not to rely on camera video feed for parking assistance in such scenario. This phenomenon is temporary and will be automatically recovered with reduction in humidity and less vari- ation in ambient temperature. The area displayed by the rear view camera is limited. The camera does not display objects that are close to or below the bumper, underneath the vehicle, or objects out of the camera’s field of view. The area dis- played on the screen may vary ac- cording to vehicle orientation or road conditions. Rear View Camera System Precau- tions Area Displayed On Screen The rear view camera system displays an image of the view from the bumper of the rear area of the vehicle.  iL Corners of bumper a The area displayed on the screen may vary according to vehicle orientation conditions. Objects, which are close to either cor- ner of the bumper or under the bumper, cannot be seen on the screen. The camera may not display items that are located higher than

bumper, cannot be seen on the screen. The camera may not display items that are located higher than the camera’s field of view. Vehicle STARTING AND DRIVING When Sharp Up Gradient Behind The @ NOTE The distance guidelines will appear to be closer to the vehicle than the actual distance. Because of this, objects will appear to be farther away than they ac- tually are. In the same way, there will be a margin of error between the guide- lines and the actual distance/course on the road. When Sharp Down Gradient Behind The Vehicle 145  STARTING AND DRIVING @ NOTE The distance guidelines will appear to be further from the vehicle than the ac- tual distance. Because of this, objects will appear to be closer than they actually are. In the same way, there will be a margin of error between the guidelines and the actual distance/course on the road. When Any Part Of The Vehicle Sags A margin of error When any part of the vehicle sags due to he number of passengers or the distribu- ion of the

error When any part of the vehicle sags due to he number of passengers or the distribu- ion of the load, there is a margin of error between the fixed guide lines on the screen and the actual distance/course on he road. When Approaching Three-dimensional Objects The distance guidelines are displayed ac- cording to flat surfaced objects (such as the road). It is not possible to determine the position of three-dimensional objects (such as vehicles) using the distance guidelines. When approaching a three-di- mensional object. 146  a. Distance guidelines b. Vehicle width guidelines Visually check the surroundings and the area behind the vehicle. On the screen, i appears that a truck is parked at point B. However, in reality if you back up to poin A, you will hit the truck. On the screen, i appears that Ais closest and C is furthes away. However, in reality, the distance to Aand C is the same, and B is further away from A and C. STARTING AND DRIVING Visually check the surroundings and the

and B is further away from A and C. STARTING AND DRIVING Visually check the surroundings and the area behind the vehicle. In the case shown below, the truck appears to be outside of the vehicle width guidelines and the vehi- cle does not look as if it hits the truck. However, the rear body of the truck may actually cross over the vehicle width guidelines. In reality if you back up as guided by the vehicle width guidelines, the vehicle may hit the truck. 147  148  EMERGENCY EQUIPMENT You should be familiar with the location of the emergency equipment provided in the vehicle and how to use it. Do a check of this equipment periodically and make sure that they are in proper working condition and stowed at their lo- cations. First Aid Kit The first aid kit is kept inside the glove box compartment. The kit contains items that can be used in case of minor injuries only. @ NOTE Examine contents of the first aid kit pe- riodically and replenish consumed or expired items. EMERGENCY AND

contents of the first aid kit pe- riodically and replenish consumed or expired items. EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Tool Kit, Tow Hook, Jack And Spare Wheel Tool kit and Jack are accommodated in Tool kit bag located in the rear boot. Tool kit bag contains + Jack handle * Tow hook + Wheel spanner + Jack The jack should be used only to change wheels. It is important to read the in- structions in this section before attempt- ing to use the jack. Advance Warning Triangle An advance warning triangle is kept near spare wheel. 149  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Use advance warning triangle to warn the approaching traffic in case of vehicle break-down or during emergency, where your vehicle could become a potential traf- ic hazard. Keep the warning triangle at an approxi- mate distance of 50-150 m behind your vehicle in the same lane of traffic. The re- lecting side of the triangle should face the oncoming traffic and it should be free from any obstacles. Remove the advance warning

face the oncoming traffic and it should be free from any obstacles. Remove the advance warning triangle carefully from the bag and assemble. Refer instructions given on the bag. 150 NOTE After using the warning triangle tie it firmly and keep it inside the bag to avoid rattling noise. Hazard Warning Switch Press the hazard warning switch to acti- vate the hazard warning. All the turn signal lamps will flash simultaneously. To turn OFF, press the switch again. Use the hazard warning to warn the traffic during emergency parking or when your vehicle could otherwise become a traffic hazard. The hazard warning lamps can operate even if the ignition is switched off.  SPARE WHEEL REMOVAL PROCESS To access the spare wheel, operate live hinge by rotating the part at upside from live hinge lift the carpet up. After lifting, hold the carpet to access the spare wheel. Remove the Tool kit bag along with contents. To remove the spare wheel, unscrew and remove the retaining bolt. EMERGENCY AND

with contents. To remove the spare wheel, unscrew and remove the retaining bolt. EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE IN CASE OF FLAT TYRE + Reduce vehicle speed gradually, Avoid sudden steering movement or braking. + Pay attention to the traffic conditions as you do so. * Switch on the hazard warning lamps. + If possible, bring the front wheels into the straight-ahead position. + Stop the vehicle on solid, non-slippery and level ground, as far away as pos- sible from traffic. + Set the parking brake firmly and shift into “R” (Reverse) gear. + When the vehicle is in uphill position, shift the gear in first gear. + Switch off the engine. * Secure the vehicle against rolling away. * Keep advance warning triangle at a suitable distance behind the vehicle as an indication of breakdown. * Close all the doors. + Use the Jack on level, hard ground. Avoid changing the wheel on uphill and 151  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE downhill slopes. Chock the wheels, if the deflated wheel needs to be

AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE downhill slopes. Chock the wheels, if the deflated wheel needs to be changed on slope / ghat area. A\ WARNING If you drive with a flat tyre, there is a risk of the following hazards: + A flat tyre affects the ability to steer or brake the vehicle. + You could lose control of the vehi- cle. * Continued driving with a flat tyre will permanently damage the tyre and cause excessive heat buildup and possibly a fire. There is a risk of an accident. Changing Flat Tyre Loosen the nuts (as indicated) on the wheel in diagonal sequence. Do not un- screw the nuts completely before raising the vehicle using the jack. 152 Wheel nut removal @NOTE + The jack is designed only to raise and hold the vehicle for a short time while a wheel is being changed. It is not suited for performing mainte- nance work under the vehicle. + Use the jack on level, hard ground. Avoid changing the wheel on uphill and downhill slopes. Chock the wheels, if the deflated wheel needs to be changed on

wheel on uphill and downhill slopes. Chock the wheels, if the deflated wheel needs to be changed on slope / ghat area. Reduce vehicle speed gradually, avoid sudden steering movement or braking. Pay attention to the traffic conditions as you do so. Switch on the Hazard warning lamps. Stop the vehicle on solid, non-slip- pery and level ground, as far away as possible from traffic. Before raising the vehicle, secure it from rolling away by applying the parking brake. Do not use wooden blocks or similar objects as a jack underlay. Do not place your hands and feet or lie under the raised vehicle when it is supported by a jack. Do not run the engine when the ve- hicle is supported by the jack and never allow passengers to remain in the vehicle. Do not open or close a door or the tailgate when the vehicle is raised.  + Use the jack on level, hard ground. Avoid changing the wheel on uphill and downhill slopes. Chock the wheels, if the deflated wheel needs to be changed on slope /ghat area. +

downhill slopes. Chock the wheels, if the deflated wheel needs to be changed on slope /ghat area. + If possible, bring the front wheels in to the straight-ahead position. « Secure the vehicle against rolling away. + Set the parking brake firmly and shift into “R” (Reverse gear) on level ground and while vehicle is in down- hill position. + When the vehicle is in uphill posi- tion, shift the gear in first gear. Assemble the Jack handle and wheel spanner (as shown in fig.) Position the jack vertically and raise it by turning the jack handle clockwise until the jack sits completely on the specified point and the base of the jack lies evenly on the ground. The jack up points are indicated by cutouts on the front and rear. EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Jacking Point Location On Vehicle Front Jacking location Rear Jacking location A\ WARNING If you do not position the jack correctly at the appropriate jacking point of the vehicle, the jack could tip over with the vehicle raised. There

appropriate jacking point of the vehicle, the jack could tip over with the vehicle raised. There is a risk of injury. Also jack can be damaged. Continue to raise the jack slowly and smoothly until the tyre clears the ground. Do not raise the vehicle more than re- quired. 153  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Lifting the front wheel using jack 154 Lifting the rear wheel using jack Remove wheel nuts with the help of whee! spanner and take out flat tyre. @NOTE Do not place wheel nuts in sand or ona dirty surface. Do not apply oil or grease on it. Roll the spare wheel into position and align the holes in the wheel studs. Tighten each nut by hand until the wheel is securely seated on the hub. Lower the jack completely then tighten the wheel nuts one by one using wheel span- ner. Press fit the wheel cover back (if applica- ble). Restore all the tools and jack at their re- spective locations. Place the flat tyre at spare wheel location NOTE * Do a check and correct the tyre pressure and

Place the flat tyre at spare wheel location NOTE * Do a check and correct the tyre pressure and wheel nuts tightness of the changed wheel at nearest au- thorised service station. Get the flat tyre repaired at the earliest. + Place the jack only at recommended jacking locations. + Do not put Jack under any part of Rear Axle.  PUNCTURE REPAIR KIT (if avail- able) Introduction A\ WARNING Compliance with these instructions is vital to ensure vehicle safety. Non-com- pliance with these instructions means risking tire damage, which can affect vehicle handling and lead to loss of ve- hicle control. This may result in serious injury or death. Inform all other users of the vehicle if standard items for dealing with a puncture (e.g. spare tire) have been replaced by the Puncture repair Kit. The Puncture repair Kit seals most tire punctures to restore temporarily mobility. Recommended use only for passenger car ground tires only and vehicle tire inflation pressure up to 300 kPa (3 bar, 43 psi).

passenger car ground tires only and vehicle tire inflation pressure up to 300 kPa (3 bar, 43 psi). The system consists of a compressor and a sealant, and serves to effectively and con- veniently seal punctures in car tires caused, for example, by nails or similar foreign objects with a diameter of up to % EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE “(6 mm). Depending on the type and extent of tire damage, some tires can only be partially sealed or not sealed at all. Loss of tire pressure can affect vehicle handling, lead- ing to loss of vehicle control. Ob-serve the following rules when using the Puncture repair Kit: + Drive with caution and avoid making sudden steering or driving maneuvers , Maneuvers, especially if the vehicle is heavily loaded or you are towing a trailer. + The system will provide you with an emergency temporary repair, enabling you to continue your journey to the next vehicle or tire dealer, or to drive a maximum distance of 200 km (120 miles). * Do not exceed a maximum

or tire dealer, or to drive a maximum distance of 200 km (120 miles). * Do not exceed a maximum speed of 80 km/h (50 mph). * Keep the Puncture repair Kit out of the reach of children. * Once the Puncture repair Kit has been used for a temporary tire repair, the functionality of the TPMS module (if applicable) shall be checked by an ex- pert and replaced if necessary. These instructions provide a step-by-step explanation of how to use the Puncture re- pair Kit to temporarily repair a tire punc- ture. Please read the section on “How to pro- ceed in the event of a tire puncture”. A\ WARNING Do not use the Puncture repair Kit if the tire has already been damaged as a re- sult of being driven underinflated. Do not try to seal damage other than that located within the visible tread of the tire. Do not try to seal damage to the tire’s sidewall. 155  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Location In Vehicle Puncture Repair Kit Removal Process * To access the puncture repair kit open the

In Vehicle Puncture Repair Kit Removal Process * To access the puncture repair kit open the Tailgate. In Luggage compartment + Remove the two Velcro as shown in figure and take out the puncture repair kit. 156  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE 157  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Instructions On How To Use The Puncture Repair Kit Safely + Use product with original vehicle ground tires only. + Only use the Puncture repair Kit with tubeless tires. + If used for other than its intended pur- pose, the Puncture repair Kit may cause severe accident or injury due to the fact that compressed air can act as an explosive or propellant. + Park your vehicle at the roadside so that you do not obstruct the flow of traf- fic and you are able to use the Punc- ture repair Kit without being in danger. + Engage the hand brake, even if you have parked on a level road, to ensure that the vehicle will not move. + Do not attempt to remove foreign ob- jects like nails or screws penetrating the tire.

not move. + Do not attempt to remove foreign ob- jects like nails or screws penetrating the tire. Leave them as they are. + Leave the engine running while the Puncture repair Kit is in use, but not if the vehicle is in an enclosed or poorly ventilated area. 158 + Never leave the Puncture repair Kit un- attended while in use. + Donot keep the compressor operating for more than 10 minutes otherwise there is a risk of it over-heating. + Replace the sealant bottle with a new one before the expiration date is reached (see bottle label). In case that the sealant is expired the functionality cannot be fully guaranteed. Only use original Puncture re-pair Kit bottles which are pressure resistant. How To Proceed In The Event Of Tyre Puncture You can temporarily repair a tire puncture in two steps. First pump the tire sealant and air into the tire (see Step 1). Immediately thereafter, drive a short distance (3-10 km / 2-6 miles) in order to distribute the sealant in the tire. After that, check

distance (3-10 km / 2-6 miles) in order to distribute the sealant in the tire. After that, check the tire pressure and pump more air into the tire if necessary (see Step 2). Then you can proceed to drive with caution for a maximum distance of 200 km (120 miles) and at a maxi-mum speed of 80 km/h (50 mph). Inform all other users of the vehicle that the tire has been temporarily sealed with the Puncture repair Kit and make them aware of the special driving conditions to be observed. WARNING Need to drain fluid from tire before re- pair. Step 1 :pumping The Tyre Sealant And Air Into The Tyre 1. Peel off the decal denoting the maxi- mum permissible speed (80 km/h | 50 mph) from the casing and attach it to the edge of the windscreen as shown on the picture. 2. Take the hose and power plug with cable out of the Puncture repair Kit casing. Unscrew the orange cap of the bottle connector. 3. Unscrew the red cap of the sealant bottle. (Shake sealant bottle well be- fore use.  AX WARNING AX

Unscrew the red cap of the sealant bottle. (Shake sealant bottle well be- fore use.  AX WARNING AX WARNING @ NOTE Leave the bottle seal intact. Screwing the bottle onto the bottle holder will pierce the seal of the bottle. Avoid skin contact with the sealant which contains natural rubber latex. Do not open pres- sure “air release” valve. Please use pro- tective glove for safety purpose. 4. Screw the bottle clockwise firmly against the slight resistance of the notches onto the sealing gasket of the bottle connector until it is screwed tight. Remove the valve cap from the dam- aged tire. Pull the protective cap off the end of the hose and screw the hose firmly onto the valve of the damaged tire. Make sure that the compressor switch is switched to “O” and the pres- sure “air release” valve is closed. Insert power plug into the 12 volt power socket connection. Start the engine (only if the vehicle is outdoors or in a well ventilated area). EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Asphyxiation

vehicle is outdoors or in a well ventilated area). EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Asphyxiation may occur if the engine is allowed to run in a non-ventilated or poorly ventilated area (e.g. inside a building) 8. Press compressor switch to “I”. @ NOTE Check the sidewall of the tire prior to in- flation. If there are any cracks, bumps or similar damage, do not attempt to in- flate the tire. Do not stand directly be- side the tire while the compressor is pumping. Watch the sidewall of the tire. If any cracks, bumps or similar damage appear, turn off the compressor and let the air out by means of the pressure “air release” valve. In this case, do not con- tinue to use the tire. When pumping in the sealant through the tire valve, the pressure may rise up to 500 kPa (5 bar, 73 psi) but will drop again after about 30 seconds. 9. Inflate the tire within about 10 minutes to an inflation pressure of minimum 180 kPa, (1.8 bar, and 26 psi) anda maximum of 300 kPa (3 bar, 43 psi). 10. Switch

of minimum 180 kPa, (1.8 bar, and 26 psi) anda maximum of 300 kPa (3 bar, 43 psi). 10. Switch off the compressor briefly in order to read the actual tire pressure from the pressure gauge. A\ WARNING If heavy vibrations, unsteady steering behavior or noises should occur while driving, reduce your speed and drive with caution to a place where it is safe for you to stop the vehicle. Recheck the tire and its pressure. If the tire pressure is less than 130 kPa (1.3 bar, 19 psi) or if there are any visible cracks, bumps or similar damage on the side wall, do not continue to use the tire! 159  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE 11, 12. Once a tire inflation pressure of at least 180 kPa (1.8 bar, 26 psi) has been reached. + Switch the compressor to “0”. + Pull the power plug from the 12 volt power socket connection. + Slowly unscrew the hose from the tire valve (sealant residues may escape from the hose) and put the protective cap back onto the hose. + Leave the bottle in the holder. This

the hose) and put the protective cap back onto the hose. + Leave the bottle in the holder. This avoids unexpected leakage of sealant residue. + Make sure the Puncture repair Kit, the cap of the bottle and the orange cap are stored safely, but are still easily ac- cessible, in the vehicle. The kit will be needed again when you check the tire pressure. 13, 14. Immediately start and drive for about 3-10 km (2-6 miles) so that the sealant can seal the damaged area. Do not drive for more than 10 min and not any faster than 80 km/h (50 mph) (observe the decal indicating the permissible speed). 160 A\ WARNING If heavy vibrations, unsteady steering behavior or noises should occur while driving, reduce your speed and drive with caution to a place where it is safe for you to stop the vehicle. Recheck the tire and its pressure. If the tire pressure is less than 130 kPa (1.3 bar, 19 psi) or if there are any visible cracks, bumps or similar damage on the side wall, do not continue to use the tire!

are any visible cracks, bumps or similar damage on the side wall, do not continue to use the tire! Step 2 Checking The Tyre Pressure 15. Stop the vehicle after driving about 3-10 km (2-6 miles). Check and, where necessary, adjust the pressure of the dam- aged tire. Remove the protective cap from the end of the hose. Screw the hose firmly onto the valve of the damaged tire. 16. Read the tire pressure from the pres- sure gauge. If the pressure of the sealant-filled tire is 130 kPa (1.3 bar, 19 psi) or more, it must now be adjusted to the pressure specified for your vehicle (Refer sticker on vehicle). AX WARNING If the tire check shows that the pressure of the sealant-filled tire is less than 130 kPa (1.3 bar, 19 psi) or if there are any visible cracks, bumps or similar tire damage on the side wall, you must not continue to use that tire. + Make sure that the compressor switch is switched off to “0”. + Insert the power plug into the 12 volt power socket connection. + Start the engine

off to “0”. + Insert the power plug into the 12 volt power socket connection. + Start the engine (only if the vehicle is outdoors or in a well ventilated area). WARNING Asphyxiation may occur if the engine is allowed to run in a non-ventilated or poorly ventilated area (e.g. inside a building ) 17,18. Switch the compressor on to and pump the tire up to the specified tire pressure within max. 10 minutes.  @ NOTE Compressor unit we can use for filling the air & checking the pressure of the normal tyre. * Switch the compressor off and check the tire pressure again. If tire pressure is too high, deflate the tire to the spec- ified pressure using the pressure “air release” valve. + Rest of the remaining sealant in the hose might leak out when opening pressure “air release” valve or taking off the protective cap of the hose. Please use protective glove for safety purpose. * Once you have inflated the tire to its correct tire pressure, switch off the compressor, pull the plug out of the

inflated the tire to its correct tire pressure, switch off the compressor, pull the plug out of the socket, unscrew the hose, fasten the tire valve cap and put back on the pro- EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE tective cap of the hose. * Leave the bottle in the holder and store the Puncture repair Kit away safely in the vehicle trunk. WARNING After using the sealant you may drive no faster than 80 km/h (50 mph), and the damaged tire must be replaced as quickly as possible (with in a maximum driving distance of 200 km (120 miles)). You must not continue to drive if heavy vibrations, unsteady steering behavior or noises should occur while driving. 19, 20. Drive to the nearest workshop to get the damaged tyre repaired and if the tyre repair is not possible, tyre should be removed from the car. Before the tire is re- moved from the rim, inform your tire dealer that the tire contains sealant. Sealant de- posits in a used hose may impair proper function of the Puncture repair Kit. Both the

Sealant de- posits in a used hose may impair proper function of the Puncture repair Kit. Both the sealant bottle and the hose need to be replaced together after using the Puncture repair Kit. @ NOTE Remember that emergency roadside tire repair kits only provide temporary mobility. Regulation concerning tire re- pair after usage of Puncture Repair Kit may differ from country to country. You should consult a tire specialist for ad- vice. A\ WARNING Before driving, ensure tire is adjusted to recommended inflation pressure as in- dicated on vehicle placard. Monitor tire pressure until sealed tire is replaced. Proceed as described above from point 15 onwards. New sealant and replacement parts can be purchased from your authorized repair shop or dealer. Sealant bottles can be dis- posed with house-hold waste. 161  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE JUMP STARTING YOUR CAR + Make the final connection (other end of speed. For Petrol NA Non IACI/ISS variants the negative terminal) to an

connection (other end of speed. For Petrol NA Non IACI/ISS variants the negative terminal) to an unpainted, . ~— Remove the jump leads in the exact (if available) heavy metal part (i.e. engine mounting reverse order in which you connected stud/nut) of the vehicle of discharged them. Use only a battery of same rating & capac- battery. ity to jump start your vehicle. Position the booster battery close to your vehicle so Piha SPER ve Pret evi a . that the jump leads will reach both batter- & disconnect in reverse order. ‘0 not disconnect the discharged bat- ies. tery from the vehicle. When using a battery of another vehicle, do not let the vehicles touch. Apply the parking brake firmly and keep the gearshift lever in neutral. A\ WARNING + Do not connect the jump lead di- rectly to the negative (—) terminal of the discharged battery. This may lead to an explosion. * Do not allow battery electrolyte to * Booster Battery Discharge Battery Turn off all vehicle accessories, except those

electrolyte to * Booster Battery Discharge Battery Turn off all vehicle accessories, except those necessary for safety like hazard i Unpainted Metal (Engine) part of warning lamps. Wahicle with dlecnanded battsry, Make jump lead connections as follows: come in contact with eyes, skin, fab- * Connect one end of the first jump lead * Start the engine of the vehicle with the rics or painted surfaces. The fluid to the positive (+) terminal of the dis- discharged battery. contains acid which can cause in- charged battery. + Before disconnecting the jumper ca- jury and severe damage. Wear pro- + Connect the other end to the positive bles, let the engine run for several min- tective apparel. Do not inhale any (+) terminal of the booster battery. utes. battery gases. Keep children away from batteries. In case if battery acid comes in contact with the skin, wash it off immediately with water and seek medical attention. * Connect one end of the second jump * if the booster battery you are using

seek medical attention. * Connect one end of the second jump * if the booster battery you are using is lead to the negative (—-) terminal of the fitted to another vehicle, start the en- booster battery. gine of the vehicle with the booster bat- tery. Run the engine at moderate 162  During charging and jump-starting, explosive gases can escape from the battery. There is a risk of an ex- plosion. Particularly avoid fire, open flames, creating sparks and smok- ing. Make sure that there is suffi- cient ventilation while charging and jump-starting. Do not lean over the battery. Make sure that the positive terminal of a connected battery does not come into contact with vehicle parts. Never place metal objects or tools on a battery. It is important that you observe the described order of the battery termi- nals when connecting and discon- necting a battery. If you are in doubt, seek assistance from qualified spe- cialist workshop. Do not connect or disconnect the battery terminals while the

from qualified spe- cialist workshop. Do not connect or disconnect the battery terminals while the engine is running. EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE connected to Battery Sensor out-put as shown below. If your vehicle is equipped with a battery sensor, connect the jump start leads on output terminal of battery sensor. Do not connect the jump start leads on sensor surface or battery terminal. This will re- sult of function loss of battery sensor. For Petrol NA IAC/ISS Variants Following method to be adopted while per- forming Battery disconnection for any service on Vehicle, Jump Start and exter- nal Battery charging. + Always remove the Battery negative from Battery Sensor output side. Never remove the Battery Sensor directly from Battery. This will result Battery learning loss and this act will switch off the ISS function. + While performing jump start, ensure that the jump start Battery negative ter- minal is connected to Battery Sensor output as shown below. + While performing

negative ter- minal is connected to Battery Sensor output as shown below. + While performing external charging, ensure that charging circuit ground is Do and Don’t Do + Use only authorized Battery sensor. + Use only authorized Battery. + Always disconnect the Battery sensor output for any service on vehicle. Don’t + Do not remove the Battery sensor if it is not necessary. + Do not mallet / hammer the Battery 163  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE sensor to fix on Battery Pole. + Do not place the Battery sensor on Positive Pole. + Donot remove the Battery Sensor con- nector. + Amaron 60D23 (60Ah) Enhanced Flooded Battery to be replaced with Amaron 60D23 (60Ah) Enhanced Flooded Battery only. + Use only Authorised Battery and Battery Sensor recommended by 164 TATA Motors. Use of any other unauthorized Battery or Battery Sensor will result in to Intelligent Al- ternator Control (IAC) and Idle Stop Start (ISS )function deterioration. TOWING When towing a break down vehicle, cer- tain

Idle Stop Start (ISS )function deterioration. TOWING When towing a break down vehicle, cer- tain precautions and procedures must be taken to prevent damage to the vehicle and/or components. Failure to use stan- dard towing precautionary measures when lifting or towing a break down vehicle could result in an unsafe operating condition. To correctly tow and prevent accidental damage to your vehicle, take help of a TATA MOTORS authorized dealer or a commercial tow-truck service.  @ NOTE Make sure that the parking brake is re- leased; vehicle is in neutral and steering wheel is unlocked. The power steering functions only when engine is running. Hence, during towing the steering ef- forts will be more. A\ WARNING + Do not get under your vehicle after it has been lifted by a tow truck. + For towing a vehicle, the best way is to use a wrecker. Alternatively use a rigid tow bar. * Switch ‘ON’ the hazard warning in- dicators of both the vehicles to warn other road users. + Limit the speed to

the hazard warning in- dicators of both the vehicles to warn other road users. + Limit the speed to 20-30 kmph. «In case of brake failure, use the parking brake to control the vehicle. + Fasten the tow rope or tow bar at the towing eyes. Otherwise, the ve- hicle could be damaged. EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE + When towing, pull away slowly and smoothly. If the tractive power is too high, the vehicles could be dam- aged. Recommended Towing In case of break down, we recommend that your vehicle be towed with the driving wheels off the ground or place the vehicle on a flatbed truck as shown. A\ WARNING + Do not tow your vehicle with the front wheels on the ground or four wheels on the ground (forward or backward), as this may cause seri- ous damage to the transmission. + When towing with the rear wheels on the ground or on towing dollies, place the ignition switch in the ‘ACC’ or ‘ON’ position, and secure the steering wheel in the straight-ahead position with a rope or similar de-

position, and secure the steering wheel in the straight-ahead position with a rope or similar de- vice. Tow Hook Fitment Open the tailgate and remove tow hook from the tool kit. 165  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE * Open the tow hook cover provided on * Screw in and tighten the tow hook in the front bumper by pressing it at the clockwise direction. bottom part and simultaneously pulling . After towing, remove the towing hook it at the top (as shown in fig). and press fit the cover properly. + Place the towing hook in the vehicle tool kit. FUSES Your vehicle has fuse boxes at three loca- tions. The vehicles electrical circuits have fuses to protect the wiring from short circuits or sustained overload. 1. Battery Mounted Fuse Box. 2. Engine Compartment Fuse Box. 3. Cabin Compartment Fuse Box. 166  Checking And Replacing Fuses If any electrical unit in your vehicle is not functioning, check the fuses first. Please follow the steps below that will guide you to check and replace them.

check the fuses first. Please follow the steps below that will guide you to check and replace them. + Apply parking brake * Switch off all electrical accessories. + Turn the ignition key to the ‘LOCK’ po- sition. + In the fuse box, identify the defective fuse from its melted wire. OK BLOWN + Remove the defective fuse by “fuse puller”. The fuse puller and spare fuses are provided in the engine compart- ment fuse box. * Defective fuses must be replaced with EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE fuses of same rating, which you can recognize by color and value. @ NOTE Always make sure that the spare fuses are added. + Make sure that all other fuses are pressed firmly in position. + If a newly inserted fuse also blows, have the cause traced and rectified at nearest TATA MOTORS Authorized Dealer/Service Center immediately. A\ WARNING + If you manipulate or bridge a faulty fuse or if you replace it with a fuse with higher amperage, the electric cables could be overloaded. This could result in a

with a fuse with higher amperage, the electric cables could be overloaded. This could result in a fire. There is a risk of an accident and injury. + Always replace faulty fuses with the specified new fuses having the cor- rect amperage. Battery Mounted Fuse Box 167  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Function PF1 STARTER MOTOR | 200A PF2 IBS 5A WARNING If Fuse box cover is removed for any reason, it should be refitted properly in its original position. Fuses - Engine Compartment Function FO - - F1 COCKPIT F/B SUPPLY | 60A F2 RADIATOR FAN-1 40A STARTER SOLENOID F3 BATT 25A HEAD LAMP HIGH F4 BEAM 15A F5 FUEL PUMP BATT 15A HEAD LAMP LOW F6 BEAM 15A F7 TCU BATTERY 2 10A F8 - - FQ TCU 30A F10 EPAS 60A The fuse box layout is for reference pur- F141 - - pose only. Please refer the sticker pro- UNDER BONNET F/R vided inside the fuse box cover. F12 BOX 60A F13 EMS BATT 10A F14 COMPRESSOR 10A F15 ABS ECU BATT 25A  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Cabin Compartment Fuse Box Cover Removal

F15 ABS ECU BATT 25A  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Cabin Compartment Fuse Box Cover Removal Procedure Fuse box is located inside the cover below steering column. To access the fuse box, remove cover as per procedure given below. 1. Fuse box cover is mounted on dash : board with the help of lugs at the top Function REVERSE F35 LAMPS/BRAKE 10A SWITCH F36 - - F37 - F38 - - and bottom of the cover from inside. Function HORN BATT F17 BRAKE LAMP BATT 10A F18 ABS PUMP 40A F19 INTERIOR F/B BATT 60A F20 IGNITION LOAD 60A F21 IGNITION COIL 15A F22 - - F23 - - F24 ABS ECU IGNITION 5A F25 AMT IGN 10A F26 - - EMS RELAY COILS & F27 SENSORS 15A F28 EMS ECU SUPPLY 20A F29 EMS INJECTOR 10A F30 | FRONT WIPER MOTOR | 20A F31 REAR WIPER 10A F32 | STARTER MO-TOR F/B | 5A F33 - - F34 - - 2. To remove the cover, gently pull the cover from upper side. 169  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Re-fitment Procedure he cover firmly. Fuses - Cabin Compartment Fi ’ Fi Fi ’ Fi Align bottom lugs and push upper

he cover firmly. Fuses - Cabin Compartment Fi ’ Fi Fi ’ Fi Align bottom lugs and push upper part with No. uneiter Rating No. punsiiten Rating respective slots on dash board and press F1 TAILGATE RELEASE 410A RELAY COIL 5A RPAS /TELEMATICS F16 | PEPS/ESCL ECU- F2 IGN 5A BATT 10A F3 ACC BATT/OBD 15A F17 IMMOBILISER 5A F4 | ACCESSORIES FUSE| 5A F18 CDL 15A | | F4 | PEPS/BLOWERRLY | 5A F19 | KEYIN/TELEBATT | 5A FS HEATED REAR 5A F20 CLUSTER 5A F3 | | SCREEN BCM F21 BLOWER MOTOR 30A I F6 HVAC/ FATC 10A £29 | TRANSIST/INFOTAIN- | 55, [ra] [re] [rs] [| F7 BCM2- BASE/MID 0A MENT {zoa]zon}zon} [Toa fasal sa | BCM F8 BCM3-MID BCM 20A H asferers sefrrafro F9 |BCM1-BASE/MID BCM| 20A esl es Teal Waals En F10 IGN FUSE2 T0A F21}F20\F9] \erale 47} IMMOB/EPAS/PEPS- Ft IGN 5A Co F12 | RESTRAINTS CON- | jo, F13 | POWER SOCKET1 15A MIRROR ADJUST F14 MOTOR 5A F15 | POWER SOCKET-2 | 15A 170  BULB SPECIFICATION EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE 12V, 55W (HV H7 (HV 1 HIGH BEAM 12V, BOW (LV) Ha (Lv) 2 LOW

EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE 12V, 55W (HV H7 (HV 1 HIGH BEAM 12V, BOW (LV) Ha (Lv) 2 LOW BEAM 12V, 55W H7 (HV)/H4 (LV) 2 6.5W LED (HV’ DomiLED DWA-HKG27 (HV 3 TAILIPOSITION 12V, 5W (vy. P214W/5W (LV) m™ 2 4 STOP 5.76W LED (HV) DomiLED D6A-SKG 9 (HV) 5 12V, 21W (LV) P214W/5W (LV) 5 REVERSE (TAIL LAMP) 12V, 16W wiew 2 6 TURN 12V, 21W wy21w 2 7 HMSL 12V, 25W BULB 1 8 DRL 12V, 9.5W LED 2 9 POSITION 12V, 1.2W (HV)/12V 5W (LV) LED (HV)/BULB (LV) 2 10 TURN 12V, 21W PY21W 2 1 FRONT FOG 12V, 19W H16 2 12 ROOF LAMP 12V, 5W BULB W5W 1 13 GLOVE BOX LAMP 12V, 5W wow 1 14 REAR REVERSE LAMP 12V, 21W P21W 1 15 PUDDLE LAMP 12V, 5W BULB 2 16 REG. PLATE LAMP 12V, 5W BULB 1 17 LUGGAGE LAMP 12V, 5W BULB 1 171  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Head Lamp Bulb Replacements A\ WARNING * Do not run the engine when you change bulbs. + If the engine has been running just prior to replacing bulbs in the head- light housing, please keep in mind that components in the engine com- partment will be hot. @

head- light housing, please keep in mind that components in the engine com- partment will be hot. @ NOTE Your vehicle’s headlamps have replace- able halogen bulbs. Replacing The Low Beam Bulb 1. Lift the bonnet to access the bulbs. 2. Remove the Bulb Access cover by ro- tating as per the direction arrow shown on the cover. 3. Press the pin and pull the connect-or from the bulb. 4. To free the headlamp bulb from the socket, press and swing the retaining spring and pull it straight back. 5. Pull out the bulb from the socket. 6. Insert the new bulb (without touching the glass) into the socket. 7. Move the retaining spring up and push it slightly until it locks properly. 8. Refit the connector in to the Bulb & ro- tate the Bulb Access Cover as per the direction arrow shown on the cover. WARNING + It is dangerous if a halogen bulb breaks. These bulbs contain pres- surized gas and if broken, will ex- plode causing serious in-jury by the flying glass. + Halogen bulbs can break if the glass

will ex- plode causing serious in-jury by the flying glass. + Halogen bulbs can break if the glass portion is touched with bare hands, body oil could cause the bulb to heat unevenly and explode when lit. + Never touch the glass portion of the bulb with your bare hands and al- ways wear eye protection when handling or working around halogen bulbs. Always keep halogen bulbs out of the reach of children.  24 X 7 ROAD ASSISTANCE Dear Customer, It is our responsibility and our endeavor to ensure that you have our complete service backup if ever, wherever and whenever you need the same. When you have a road network that spans wide area, the probability of a breakdown happening within hailing distance of a TATAMOTORS Authorized Workshop is very low. It is precisely for this reason, we have tied up with TVS AA, who will provide break- down assistance including towing to the nearest TATA MOTORS Authorized Work- shop through their Authorized Service Providers (ASP). The 24X7 On Road Assistance

Authorized Work- shop through their Authorized Service Providers (ASP). The 24X7 On Road Assistance Program shall be automatically available to your ve- hicle for the duration of Warranty period. The program shall also be available, if you avail the same post warranty. EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Response Time ** For The On Road Assistance Program Within City Limits On State or Na- tional Highways Ghat Roads and other places 60 minutes 90 minutes 120 minutes +/- ** (The response time will depend on the location, terrain, traffic density and the time of the day.) Standard Procedure When Calling For On Road Assistance In Case Of A Breakdown * Dial the toll free help line number — 1800 209 8282 + Identify your vehicle with the Vehicle chassis number that is available in the Owner’s Manual. + Explain your exact location with land- marks and tell us about the problem you face with the vehicle. + Park your vehicle on the edge of the road, open the bonnet and put on the hazard warning

vehicle. + Park your vehicle on the edge of the road, open the bonnet and put on the hazard warning signal. + Place the advance warning triangle supplied with the vehicle approx. 3 m from the vehicle in the direction of on- coming traffic. TATA MOTORS | SERVICE RESPONSIVE © 24x7 ON-ROAD ASSISTANCE 16800 2700 H2H2 Coverage Under 24 X 7 On Road As- sistance Program |. The 24x7 On Road Assistance Pro- gram Service covers the following services 173  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE on your vehicle during warranty period. + Wheel change through spare wheel. + Arrangement of fuel. (Fuel cost will be chargeable at actual cost). + Re-opening the vehicle in cases of key lock out. * Rectification of electrical problems re- lated to battery, fuses etc. * On spot repairs for complaints re- pairable at site. * + Vehicle to vehicle towing or winching & towing for non-accident cases up to the nearest TATA MOTORS Authorized Dealer/Service Center. Towing charges at actual cost beyond the same to be

TATA MOTORS Authorized Dealer/Service Center. Towing charges at actual cost beyond the same to be paid to the ASP in cash. (Any ferry or toll charges levied in re- lation to the vehicle being towed to be paid by the customers in actuals in cash). For accident cases, towing charges to be borne by the customer. Il. The 24x7 On Road Assistance Pro- gram coverage on availing the 24X7 pol- icy, post warranty is upto maximum of 6 instance of assistance in one year for both the plans- Basic and Premium. In the pre- mium plan, this includes 2 instances of towing up to the nearest TATA MOTORS Authorized Dealer/Service Center. Exclusions 24 X 7 On Road Assistance Program Does Not Apply To * Cost of parts consumables and labor for such repairs not covered under warranty*. These charges are to be settled with ASP in cash. * Toll or ferry charges paid by ASP in reaching to the breakdown site to be settled with ASP in actuals in cash. * Cases involving accident, fire, theft, vandalism, riots,

be settled with ASP in actuals in cash. * Cases involving accident, fire, theft, vandalism, riots, lightening, earth- quake, windstorm, hail, tsunami, un- usual weather conditions, other acts of God, flood, etc. + Vehicles that are unattended, un-reg- istered, impounded or abandoned. + Breakdown/defects caused by misuse, abuse, negligence, alterations or mod- ifications made to the vehicle. + Lack of maintenance as per the main- tenance schedule as detailed in the owner’s manual. * Cases involving racing, rallies, vehicle testing or practice for such events. Disclaimer * The Service is not available in Lak- shadweep. « The reach time is indicative & the ac- tual reach time will be conveyed by the call center at the time of breakdown call. + The reach time can vary depending on the traffic density & time of the day. + The reach time indicated does not ac- count for delays due to but not limited to acts of God, laws, rules & regula- tions for time being in force, orders of statutory or

limited to acts of God, laws, rules & regula- tions for time being in force, orders of statutory or Govt. authorities, industrial disputes, inclement weather, heavy down pour, floods, storms, natural calamities, road blocks due to acci- dents, general strife and law & order conditions viz. fire, arson, riots, strikes, terrorist attacks, war etc. 174  Or dep in spot repairs at breakdown site shall end on nature of complaints & will be as per the discretion of the ASP. * The decision for free of charge re-pairs will be as per the warranty policy & proce- dures of TATA MOTORS PASSENGER VEHICLE LIMITED inte! be cen and as per the rpretation of the same by ASP. You will duly informed by the ASP & call er for the change applicable if any. All charges wherever applicable need o be settled directly with the ASP. Exclusion Of Liabilities it is understood that TATA MOTORS shall be under no liability whatsoever in respect of any loss or dam-age aris- ing directly or indirectly out of any delay

whatsoever in respect of any loss or dam-age aris- ing directly or indirectly out of any delay in or non-delivery of, defect/defi- ciency in service/parts provided by ASP. In case vehicle cannot be repaired on- site, customers are advised to use the towing facility for taking their vehicle to the nearest TATA MOTORS authorized workshop only. In no condition shall the vehicle be towed to any unautho- rized work-shop. TATA MOTORS will EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE not be responsible for any repairs car- ried out in such unauthorized work- shop. Customer are advised to take acknowl- edgment from the ASP for the list of ac- cessories/extra fittings and other belongings in the vehicle as well as the current condition related to dents/scratches break-ages of parts/fitments of the vehicle at the time of ASP taking possession of the vehi- cle & to verify these items when deliv- ery is taken back by them, Claim for loss of or damage to items, if any should be taken up with ASP directly.

back by them, Claim for loss of or damage to items, if any should be taken up with ASP directly. TATA MOTORS shall not be responsi- ble for any such claims, damages/loss or any deficiency of service of the ASP. Vehicles will be handled, repaired & towed as per the customer’s risk & TATA MOTORS shall not be liable for any damages / claims as a result of the same. Services entitled to the customers can be refused or cancelled on account of abusive behavior, fraudulent represen- tation, malicious intent and refusal to pay the charges for any charges re- lated services and spare parts during service or on previous occasions on part of the customer. On site repairs may be temporary in nature. The completion of repairs does not certify the road worthiness of the vehicle. The customer is advised to en- sure temporary re-pairs carried out on- site is followed by permanent repairs at a TATA MOTORS Authorised Dealer/Service Center at the earliest. Terms and conditions and service cov- erage,

Authorised Dealer/Service Center at the earliest. Terms and conditions and service cov- erage, exclusions etc. are subject to change without notice. 175  176  MAINTENANCE AND SERVICE Periodic maintenance is essential for en- suring long trouble free performance. Have your vehicle serviced regularly from TATA MOTORS Authorized Dealer/Service Center. There is a large network of TATA MO- TORS Authorized Service Centre to help you with their professional servicing ex- pertise. Scheduled maintenance informa- tion is provided which makes tracking routine service easy. The following checks can be carried out between the recommended scheduled maintenance services. Take help of our authorized service center for assistance. + Engine oil level * Engine coolant level * Brake fluid level + Washer fluid level checking & top-ping up + Battery electrolyte level + Tyre inflation pressure including spare wheel Refer “Opening and Closing” section for engine bonnet opening. MAINTENANCE A\ WARNING *

spare wheel Refer “Opening and Closing” section for engine bonnet opening. MAINTENANCE A\ WARNING * Becareful not to touch a hot engine, exhaust manifold and pipes, muffler, radiator and water hoses. * Do not work on a vehicle with the engine running in an enclosed space, unless you are sure of enough ventilation. * Keep all open flames and other burning material (such as ciga- rettes) away from the battery and all fuel related parts. If you need to do any work inside the engine compartment, * Switch off the ignition + Never reach into the area where there is a risk of danger from mov- ing components, such as the fan ro- tation area. * Keep clothing away from moving parts. 177  MAINTENANCE ENGINE COMPARTMENT (MT) 1. Brake fluid reservoir 4. Engine oil filling cap 7. Battery 2. Dipstick — Engine oil 5. Radiator Cap 3. Windshield washer container 6. Fuse Box 178  MAINTENANCE ENGINE COMPARTMENT (AMT) 1. Brake fluid reservoir 4. Engine oil filling cap 7. Battery 2. Dipstick — Engine oil

(AMT) 1. Brake fluid reservoir 4. Engine oil filling cap 7. Battery 2. Dipstick — Engine oil 5. Radiator Cap 8. AMT oil reservoir 3. Windshield washer container 6. Fuse Box 179  MAINTENANCE ENGINE OIL LEVEL Dipstick location Engine oil Warm up the engine to normal operating temperature. Turn it ‘OFF’ and wait for 5 minutes for the oil to return to the oil pan. Be sure the ve- hicle is on a level surface. Take out the dipstick, wipe it clean, and reinsert it fully. Pull it out again and exam- ine the oil level. It should be between ‘MIN’ and ‘MAX’ level. If not, top up with recom- mended engine oil. 180 For location of Engine oil filling cap and dip stick, please refer image of the re- spective Engine Compartment. NOTE The oil consumption depends upon the driving style and the conditions under which the vehicle is used. A-MIN B-MAX Dipstick NOTE Do not remove the filler cap when the engine is running. Do not add oil above than the MAX. mark. Oil level above the MAX. mark may cause

engine is running. Do not add oil above than the MAX. mark. Oil level above the MAX. mark may cause engine damage.  BRAKE FLUID LEVEL Brake fluid reservoir Brake fluid level The level of the brake fluid should be be- tween the ‘MIN’ and ‘MAX’ marks provided on the side of the brake fluid container. If the level falls below the ‘MIN’ mark, add recommended brake fluid. 1) NOTE Do not allow brake fluid to make contact with the skin or eyes. Do not allow brake fluid to splash or spill on the paint surface as it will damage the paint. In case of spillage, wipe it off immediately. For location of Brake Fluid Container and filling cap, please refer respective Engine Compartment. MAINTENANCE ENGINE COOLANT LEVEL Examine whether the coolant level is be- tween the ‘MIN’ and ‘MAX’ marks provided on the coolant reservoir. When the coolant level is low, top up with recommended coolant through filler of No loss tank until the level approaches the max level line. Refer ‘Technical informa- tion’

of No loss tank until the level approaches the max level line. Refer ‘Technical informa- tion’ section. 181  MAINTENANCE @ NOTE A\ WARNING In case of emergency, a large amount of water without engine coolant may be added in order to reach a vehicle serv- ice location. Whenever coolant has been added, the coolant level in the coolant reservoir should be checked the next few times you drive the vehicle to confirm correct level. For location of Engine coolant con- tainer and filler cap, please refer image of Engine Compartment. @ NOTE Topping up of the coolant should be done in the auxiliary tank only. Make sure that only TATA MOTORS rec- ommended coolant is used. Mixing of dif- ferent coolants may harm your engine’s cooling system and its components. Do not add extra inhibitors or additives to the coolant. These can be harmful and com- promise the corrosion protection of the en- gine coolant. 182 The engine cooling system is pressur- ized, particularly when the engine is warm. When

coolant. 182 The engine cooling system is pressur- ized, particularly when the engine is warm. When opening the cap, you could be scalded by hot coolant spray- ing out. There is a risk of injury. Let the engine cool down before open- ing the cap. Wear eye and hand protec- tion when opening the cap. Open the cap slowly half a turn to allow pressure to escape. CHECKING AMT OIL RESERVOIR LEVEL The level of the AMT oil reservoir leve should be between the ‘MIN’ and ‘MAX’ marks on the side of the container. If the level falls below the ‘MIN’ mark, add rec- ommended oil.  WINDSHIELD WASHER LEVEL FLUID Examine if there is washer fluid in the tank. Fill it if necessary. Use a good quality windshield washer fluid, diluted with water as necessary. NOTE + Do not use detergent or any other additive in the windshield washer reservoir. This can severely impair visibility when sprayed on the wind- shield, and can also damage your vehicle’s paint. + Do not operate washer motor with no fluid in washer

and can also damage your vehicle’s paint. + Do not operate washer motor with no fluid in washer tank, washer motor will be damaged For location of Windshield Washer Container and filling cap, please refer image of the respective Engine Com- partment. MAINTENANCE BATTERY Examine the battery for electrolyte level against the marking on the bat- tery outer case. Examine the battery terminals for cor- rosion (a white or yellowish powder). To remove it, wash the terminals with a solution of baking soda. It will bubble up and turn brown. When this stops, wash it off with plain water. Dry off the battery with a cloth or paper towel. Apply petroleum jelly to the terminals to prevent further corrosion. Use a proper wrench to loosen and re- move cables from the terminals. Always disconnect the negative (-ve) cable first and reconnect it last. If your vehicle is equipped with Battery Sensor, then disconnect only the Sen- sor Output Cable. Do not remove the Sensor, Sensor connector completely as

disconnect only the Sen- sor Output Cable. Do not remove the Sensor, Sensor connector completely as this will result in the loss of sensor function temporarily. Sensor function- ality will be restored when the Vehicle 183  MAINTENANCE is parked for 3 hours without any oper- ation. + Clean the battery terminals with a ter- minal cleaning tool or wire brush. + Reconnect and tighten the cables, coat the terminals with petroleum jelly. + Make sure that the battery is securely mounted. + If you need to connect the battery toa charger, disconnect both cables to pre- vent damage to the vehicle’s electrical system. + If your vehicle is equipped with Battery 184 Sensor, connect the jump start leads on output terminal of Battery Sensor. Do not connect the jump start leads on Sensor surface or Battery terminal. This will result of function loss of Bat- tery sensor. Refer the Battery Sensor image for do’s and don'ts. NOTE Use For petrol MT 60Ah Enhanced flooded Battery to be replaced with

image for do’s and don'ts. NOTE Use For petrol MT 60Ah Enhanced flooded Battery to be replaced with enhanced flooded battery (60 Ah) of the respective supplier only. For location of battery, please refer image of the respective Engine Com- partment. Use only authorized Battery recom- mended by TATA Motors. Use of any other unauthorized Battery will result into Engine Start-Stop ,Intelligent Alter- nator control function detoriation. @ NOTE + During normal operation, the battery generates gas which is explosive in nature. A spark or open flame can cause the battery to explode caus  ing very serious injuries. Keep all sparks, open flames and smoking materials away from the battery. The battery contains sulphuric acid (electrolyte) which is poisonous and highly corrosive in nature. Getting electrolyte in your eyes or on the skin can cause severe burns. Wear protective clothing and a face shield or have a skilled technician to do the battery maintenance. SPARK PLUG (PETROL) MAINTENANCE

shield or have a skilled technician to do the battery maintenance. SPARK PLUG (PETROL) MAINTENANCE TYRES 1 2 3 UNDER INFLATION CORRECT OVER INFLATION OY ® For NG NA Engine Federal Mogul RER8MC 0.8 to 0.9 (Champion) Tightening Torque - 25 Nm @ NOTE Use spark plug of recommended make & type for replacement. Excessive side 1 Under inflation tread wear Correct tyre pres- sure Uniform wear Excessive cen- 3 Over inflation ter tread wear Inflation Do a check of the tyre pressure and the tyres condition periodically. Examine the pressure in the tyres when hey are cold. 185  MAINTENANCE Keep the correct pressure in the tyres for he best combination of riding comfort, handling, tyre life and optimum perform- ance. Over inflation of tyres makes the vehicle ride bumpy and harsh. Tyres are more prone to uneven wear and damage from road hazards. Under inflated tyres reduce comfort, af- ects handling and increases the operating emperature, which can result in failure. They also cause uneven wear and

increases the operating emperature, which can result in failure. They also cause uneven wear and bring down the performance of the car. @ NOTE Every time you check inflation pressure, you should also examine tyres for un- even wear, damage and trapping of for- eign objects in the treads and wear. 186 Recommended Tyre Pressures Tyre Size Front Rear a (psi/bar) _(psi/bar) 185/70 R15 89H 195/60 R16 32 psi (2.2 bar) 89H NOTE This is for reference. Kindly refer Tyre pressure as indicated on tyre pressure sticker provided on vehicle. Tyre Pressure Sticker Location Tyre Rotation To increase tyre life rotate the tyre at spec- ified intervals or earlier depending on the operation of vehicle. The illustrations shows how to rotate tyres.  For 185/70 R15 Tyres j an B STEEL WHEEL ROM With temporary spare wheel For Tyre With Temporary Spare Wheel (if available) For 195/60 R16 Tyres With Temporary Spare Wheel STEEL WHEEL RIM @ NOTE + Do not use spare wheel for tyre ro- tation, in case of temporary

Wheel STEEL WHEEL RIM @ NOTE + Do not use spare wheel for tyre ro- tation, in case of temporary spare wheel used. + Two or more temporary tyres should not be used on one vehicle. + Tyre pressure of temporary wheel is to be checked at least once in in a month. Wheel Covers (if available) Insert a piece of cloth between the spokes of the wheel cover and pull it outwards. MAINTENANCE Take out detached wheel cover from the wheel rim. When installing the cover, make sure that itis positioned so that it does not cover the air filling valve. Apply equal pressure at the circumference of the wheel cover to fix it in the wheel rim. Do not use any sharp tools (such as screw driver etc.) to remove the wheel cover. Wheel Balancing Wheels of your vehicle are balanced for better ride comfort and longer tyre life. Bal- ancing needs to be done whenever tyre is removed from rim. A\ WARNING If the vehicle vibrates abnormally on a smooth road, have the wheel balanced done immediately. Special Care For

vibrates abnormally on a smooth road, have the wheel balanced done immediately. Special Care For Tubeless Tyres + When you remove the tyre and install 187  MAINTENANCE it back on the rim, take precautions not to damage tyre bead. Use tyre removal and assembly machines. Damage or cut on tyre bead may cause gradual loss of air and deflation of tyre. + Do not scratch the inner surface of tubeless tyre with metallic or sharp ob- ject. Tubeless tyres are coated with im- permeable layer of rubber from the inner surface which holds the air in the tyre. Removal of this layer due to scratching may cause gradual loss of air and deflation. + If wheel rim gets damaged in service, get the wheel rim repaired/ replaced immediately. Running the vehicle with damaged rim may cause deflation of tyre and subsequent dislodging of tyre from rim. + Keep the recommended inflation pres- sure. Over-inflation, in particular, may cause puncture or bursting of tyre. @ NOTE Life and wear pattern of tyres depends

particular, may cause puncture or bursting of tyre. @ NOTE Life and wear pattern of tyres depends on various parameters like tyre pres 188 sure, wheel alignment, wheel balanc- ing, tyre rotation, etc. It also largely de- pends on vehicle speed, load carried, usage, driving habits, road conditions, tyre quality, etc. In case fault is sus- pected to be due to poor quality of tyres, the same may be taken up with con- cerned tyre manufacturer. SMART KEY BATTERY REPLACE- MENT (For PEPS variant) Procedure: 1. Open rear side of key (battery cover). 2. Replace with new battery in the smart key battery slot. 3. Ensure that the “+” symbol on the bat- tery is facing upwards. The correct po- larity is shown on the battery cover. 4. Close the battery cover. 5. Make sure that the key cover is intact properly.  @ NOTE + Use CR 2032 battery only. + Aninappropriately dis-posed battery can be harmful to the environment and human health. Dispose the bat- tery according to your local law(s) and

to the environment and human health. Dispose the bat- tery according to your local law(s) and regulation. ON BOARD DIAGNOSTIC (OBD Il) SYSTEM On board Diagnostics or OBD, is an auto- motive term referring to a vehicle’s self-di- agnostic and reporting capability. The OBD system allows continuous diagnosis of the components of the vehicle corre- lated with emissions. This system warns the driver, by turning “ON” the Malfunction Indication lamp (MIL) on the instrument cluster, when a fault causes emission lev- els to increase. The OBD system also has a diagnostic connector that can be interfaced with ap- propriate diagnostic tools, which makes it possible to read the fault codes stored in the Electronic Control Unit, together with a series of specific parameters for Engine operation and Diagnosis. This check can also be carried out by the traffic police. On board diagnostic located in Engine compartment fuse box. (Refer below image) MAINTENANCE s Fo] Fe] F7 | | Fe | FS | 4 T5A| 15a] V5]

compartment fuse box. (Refer below image) MAINTENANCE s Fo] Fe] F7 | | Fe | FS | 4 T5A| 15a] V5] [10a ]25A] SA iF22 IFts|ria|rts| |Ft2]F11|F10 15A] 5a [715A] [TOA] 5A [104] Location of On board diagnostic (OBD II) 189  MAINTENANCE SERVICE INSTRUCTIONS The TATA PUNCH has been manufactured to give you econom- ical and trouble free performance. To achieve this, please follow the instructions as stated. Your vehicle is entitled to three free services (labour only). The free service coupons are attached to the sales invoice. Please present these coupons to the servicing dealer while availing free services. 1st free service - At 1,000-2,000km. OR 2 months, whichever is earlier. 2nd free service - At 7,000-8,000km. OR 6 months, whichever is earlier. 3rd free service - At 14,500-15,500km. OR 12 months, which- ever is earlier. All services other than free services are chargeable. 190 Servicing of the vehicle can be done at any TATA MOTORS Au- thorised Dealer Workshop or TATA MOTORS Authorised

the vehicle can be done at any TATA MOTORS Au- thorised Dealer Workshop or TATA MOTORS Authorised Service Centre (TASC). Warranty claims can be settled by any TATA MOTORS Authorised Dealer Workshop or TATA MOTORS Authorised Service Centre (TASC).  MAINTENANCE SERVICE SCHEDULE xoooao0occ Dee 8 © = € sceeoseosqoseoeoeeogs 96 ® Operation x BRASerBRaAoRBASRN N P RT NM OM TNH OOKR OD DD ra N © oo N @ so N =) Months oYFassgVsessseRR a General Wash the vehicle & Clean| Every 1 . : e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e Condenser Fins Service Check & Top up Fluids (If re- quired): Transaxle Oil, 2 |Coolant, Brake Fluid, Bat- tery Electrolyte, Wind Screen washer fluid Check Fuel Lines for Leak-| Every Every Service 3 : e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e ages Service Check and Capture all E 4 |DTC’s Clear all faults and VEY Jeleleleleleleleleleleloleleleleoleleleleolele Service Erase the Codes. Check condition of rubber bushes/parts in lower con- trol arms, front and rear coil]

the Codes. Check condition of rubber bushes/parts in lower con- trol arms, front and rear coil] 7.5K / spring seats, front & rear] 6M bump stoppers, anti roll bar links, rear twist beam, rub 191  MAINTENANCE Operation ber boots/dust cover/bellow in rack & pinion, steering and suspension ball joints, steering column. Replace if necessary. (First at 7.5K / 6M then at every service) (For severe usage, above checks to be done at every 5,000 km or after every se- vere usage event) x r=) So wo nN o 12 15000 18 22500 24 30000 30 37500 36 45000 42 52500 48 60000 54 67500 60 75000 66 82500 72 90000 78 97500 90 112500 6 Check & Replace if found] 30K/24 . . . damaged - Exhaust hanger M Check All door latch & 7 |striker operations Adjust & 15K/12 e e e e e e M Apply grease If required 8 |Check for all bolts & nuts om elelelel/elel/elel/elejel/ele e ENGINE (Gasoline) NA 1 Clean air filter element] 15K/ e . . . e . (more frequently for vehicle} 12M 192  Operation x r=) So wo nN o 12 15000 18 22500

e . . . e . (more frequently for vehicle} 12M 192  Operation x r=) So wo nN o 12 15000 18 22500 24 30000 30 37500 36 45000 42 52500 48 60000 54 67500 60 75000 66 82500 72 90000 78 97500 90 112500 MAINTENANCE operating in severe condi- tion) Change engine oil and Oil| 15K/ . . e . . . . . . filter 12M Gasoline - Replace Gaso-| 75K/60 . . line Fuel Filter M Change Spark plugs - Nat-| 45K/36 e . . ural Aspirated Engine M Check accessory belt condi- CO . 15K/12 tion visually, replace if found M e e e e e e e e ° damage Replace air filter element (more frequently for vehicle | 45K/36 e . . operating in severe condi- M tion) # 60K/ Change coolant 36M e e BRAKES Check front brake pads & |15K/12M e e e e e e e e e 193  MAINTENANCE Operation rear brake linings. Replace if necessary x r=) So wo nN o 12 15000 18 22500 24 30000 30 37500 36 45000 42 52500 48 60000 54 67500 60 75000 66 82500 72 90000 78 97500 90 112500 Repalce brake fluid , # 45K / 2 |Check brake system com- e e 24M ponents for

78 97500 90 112500 Repalce brake fluid , # 45K / 2 |Check brake system com- e e 24M ponents for Leakages Inspect and if necessary adjust handbrake setting 15K / 3. | (First check @7.5K/6M 12M ele e e e e e e then after every 15K/12M) WHEELS & TYRES Check & adjust wheel align- ment (For severe usage, # 1 |above checks to be done at} 15K/18 e e e e e e e every 5,000 km or after M every severe usage event) 2 Check for Tyre pressure,| #7.5 elelelelelelelcelclclelelelecle condition & rotate K/12M 194  MAINTENANCE xoooao0occ Dee 8 © S ee) fF SERSLESRSLRSRSERSA Operation RT NNO TST DH OOK DBO = oNDtTOHNnN HD tT DON © ° Tr KT NM OT TH OOK K a TRANSAXLE 1 |Replace transaxle oil neo e ° Check AMT Kit oil level, it should be in between min. & Max. level when the vehi-| Every 2 woe . : e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e cle is in standstill and Service Ignition ON condition. Top up AMT kit oil if necessary. ELECTRICAL 1 Check specific gravity of| 7 Signy

ON condition. Top up AMT kit oil if necessary. ELECTRICAL 1 Check specific gravity of| 7 Signy elelel/elelelel/el/e,sei/el/el/elel/elel/e|/el/ele battery electrolyte 2 |Check headlamp focusing ro . e e e e e e e e ° A.C. SYSTEM Clean filter and check of Air- Eve: 1 |conditioning / HVAC System Y Teleleleleleleleleleleoleleleleoleleleleolelele P Service for satisfactory performance # Kms or months whichever occurs earlier. 195  MAINTENANCE VEHICLE PARKING FOR LONG DU- RATION (Non - Use Maintenance) If you want to park your vehicle at one place for long duration, following care is to be taken: 1. Park the vehicle in covered, dry and if possible well-ventilated premises. En- gage a gear. Remove the battery terminal cables (first remove the cable from the nega- tive terminal). Ensure that battery is fully charged. Use wheel chocks to prevent move- ment of the car. Clean and protect the painted parts using protective wax. Clean and protect the shiny metal parts using commercially available

parts using protective wax. Clean and protect the shiny metal parts using commercially available special compounds. Sprinkle talcum powder on the rubber windscreen wiper and lift them off the glass. Slightly open the windows. Cover the vehicle with a cloth or perfo- rated plastic sheet. Do not use sheets 196 10. 11. of imperforated plastic as they do not allow moisture on the vehicle body to evaporate. Inflate the tyres to 0.5 bar above the normal specified pressure and check it at regular intervals. Check the battery charge every six weeks. Do not drain the engine cooling sys- tem.  TECHNICAL INFORMATION FUEL SPECIFICATION Fuel (petrol) Unleaded gasoline conforming to IS 2796:2017 is recommended to be used as fuel. It is always recommended to use cor- rect fuel to get optimum emission perform- ance. Always use petrol of a correct specifica- tion in a vehicle fitted with catalytic con- verter. Even single fill of leaded petrol will seriously damage the catalytic con- verter. 197

verter. Even single fill of leaded petrol will seriously damage the catalytic con- verter. 197  TECHNICAL INFORMATION LUBRICANT SPECIFICATION Use following genuine fluids, coolants and lubricants recommended for optimum performance of your vehicle. Castrol GTX T 0W20 Engine oil oW20, SS6588 Exxon Mobil Mobil Super 3000 TM OW20 3.5L Petronas PETRONAS Syntium 7000 TM 0W20 Coolant (Premixed) Ansysco Puroblue (Antifreeze agent + |Class II/JIS K2234 |Sunstar CCI | Gloden Cruiser LLC2200NP 4L Softwater 40:60 | TATA SS770081 TATA MOTORS GENUINE COOLANT KOOL ratio) IOCL PLUS CASTROL EXTREME PRESSURE 80 EP (1LX20) PETRONAS TATA MOTORS Genuine -Gear Transaxle oil Gen) Nex Pevones oil New Gen 80 EP LL 1.8L TATA SS6582 lOCL Woe TATA MOTORS Genuine gear oil 80 Mobilube Mobilube GX - A 80W PETRONAS _ |Tutela Brake fluid DOT 4 Sunstar CCI Golden Cruiser Tata Genuine Brake Fluid Brake fluid SAE J1703, DOT4 (DOT 4) As required Optional - CASTROL- Universal Brake Fluid CASTROL DOT 4 Refrigerant R-134A

DOT4 (DOT 4) As required Optional - CASTROL- Universal Brake Fluid CASTROL DOT 4 Refrigerant R-134A - 450 + 20gm Compressor oil SP-10 Sanden Vikas |SP10 120+ 15 ml 198  TECHNICAL INFORMATION AMT Kit oil Hydraulic Oil PETRONAS TUTELA Cs — Speed As required @ NOTE Check AMT Kit oil level at every service, it should be in between min. & max. level when the vehicle is in standstill and ignition ON condition. Top up AMT kit oil if necessary.” 199  TECHNICAL INFORMATION TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS Engine Model/type 1.2 Revotron Petrol NA Engine MT/AMT Capacity 1199 cc Max. Engine output 63 kW @ 6000 rpm (86PS @ 6000 rpm) Max. Torque 113 Nm @ 3300+/-100 rpm Transaxle Model TA 65* MT/AMT Type Synchromesh with Overdrive No. of gears 5-Forward, 1-Reverse Steering Type Electric Power Assisted Steering System Brakes Brakes Front (Disc); Rear (Drum) Parking brake Hand Operated (Pull to Operate) on LHS of Driver Suspension Type Front: Independent, lower wishbone, Mcpherson strut with coil spring Rear:

Driver Suspension Type Front: Independent, lower wishbone, Mcpherson strut with coil spring Rear: Semi-independent twist beam with coil spring and shock absorber Shock absorber Hydraulic; gas filled Wheels & tyre Tyres Option | :195/60 R16 (Radial-Tubeless); 200  TECHNICAL INFORMATION Option II :185/70 R15 (Radial-Tubeless); Fuel tank Capacity 37 litres Cab / body Type Steel Monocoque body Electrical system System voltage 12 V 60Ah ( MT) ; 12V,47Ah (AMT) Alternator capacity 13.5 V, 110A Battery 12V,60 Ah Main chassis dimension (in mm) Wheel base 2445 Track front 1510 Track rear 1510 Overall length 3827 Overall height 1615 Max. Width without ORVM 1742 Max. Width with ORVM 1945 Ground clearance 159 mm (with laden) Performance Max. Speed 155 kmph 201  TECHNICAL INFORMATION Max. Recommended grad- ability 15.3 deg. Minimum Turning Circle Dia. in meter as per 10 1$:12222 Minimum Turning Clear- : — 10.6 ance circle dia. in meters Weight (in kg) 1150 (MT) (Pure) Gross vehicle weight 1435 (MT)

: — 10.6 ance circle dia. in meters Weight (in kg) 1150 (MT) (Pure) Gross vehicle weight 1435 (MT) ; 1440 (AMT) (Adventurous) (Laden) 1448 (MT); 1453 (AMT) (Accomplished) 1460 (MT) (AMT) (Creative) 1000 (MT) (Pure) . 1010 (MT) ; 1015 (AMT) (Adventurous) Kerb weight (unladen) 1023 (MT); 1028 (AMT) (Accomplished) 1035 (MT) (AMT) (Creative) 202  TECHNICAL INFORMATION VEHICLE DIMENSIONS QSSOOOHOOTRED) H=1615 NOTE: Dimensions are in mm and under Unladen condition 203  TECHNICAL INFORMATION AGGREGATE IDENTIFICATION NUMBERS VIN plate location near front passenger Engine No. plate seat Chassis No. punching near driver seat Transaxle No. Punching (TA 65*) 204  CAR CARE Your vehicle is subjected to many external influences such as climate, road condi- tions, industrial pollution and proximity to the sea. These conditions demand regular care of the vehicle body. Dirt, insects, bird droppings, oil, grease, fuel and stone chip- pings should be removed as soon as pos- sible. Washing Following these

grease, fuel and stone chip- pings should be removed as soon as pos- sible. Washing Following these tips while washing your vehicle. Always wash your vehicle in shade and the surface is at room temperature. Wash with mild vehicle wash soap like ‘Car Shampoo’ and use a soft bristle brush, sponge or soft cloth and rinse it fre- quently while washing to avoid scratches. To avoid scratches, please wear soft gloves. Remove finger rings, nails, wrist watch while washing. To remove stubborn stains and contami- nants like tar, use turpentine or cleaners like ‘Stain remover’ which are safe for paint surfaces. VEHICLE CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES Avoid substances like petrol, diesel, kerosene, benzene, thinner, ac-ids or other solvents that cause damage to paint. Dry your vehicle thoroughly to pre-vent any damp spots. Rinse all surfaces thoroughly to prevent any traces of soap and other cleaners as this may lead to the formation of stains on the painted surface later. NOTE Avoid parking the

as this may lead to the formation of stains on the painted surface later. NOTE Avoid parking the car under trees with- out proper cover, it will reduce the amount of bird droppings, tree sap and pollen contact on paint surface. Regu- larly remove the twigs, leaves and veg- etation near the windshield areas, to avoid water stagnation. A\ WARNING Do not direct high pressure washer fluid/ water jets (Pres-sure above 0.5 bar) at electrical devices and connecter during washing. This is to prevent mal- function / failure of electrical sys-tem due to water ingress. After drying the vehicle, inspect it for chips and scratches that could allow corrosion to start. Apply touch up paint where nec- essary. Cleaning of Carpets Vacuum clean the carpet regularly to re- move dirt. Dirt will make the carpet wear out faster. Periodically, shampoo the car- pet to keep it looking new. Use carpet cleaners (preferably foam type). Follow the instructions that come with the cleaner. Apply it with a sponge or

foam type). Follow the instructions that come with the cleaner. Apply it with a sponge or soft brush. Keep the carpeting as dry as possible by not adding water to the foam. 205  VEHICLE CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES @ NOTE Avoid wiping of painted surface in dry condition as it may leave scratches on the painted surface. Cleaning of Windows, Front and Rear Glasses Clean the windows inside and outside with commercially available glass cleaners. This will remove the haze that builds up on the inside of windows. Use a soft cloth or paper towels to clean all glass and plastic surfaces. Waxing Waxing and polishing is recommended to maintain the gloss and wet-look appear- ance of your paint finish. 1. Use good quality polish and wax for your vehicle. 2. Re-wax your vehicle when the water does not slip off the surface but col- lects over the surface in patches. Polishing Polishes and cleaners can restore shine to 206 the painted surface that has oxidized and become dull. They normally contain

restore shine to 206 the painted surface that has oxidized and become dull. They normally contain mild abrasives and sol-vents that remove the top layer of the finish coat. Polish your ve- hicle, if the finish does not regain its origi- nal shine after using wax. Interior Fabric Cleaning Tips 1. Stains should be treated immediately. If left for a long time, they can leave a permanent mark. 2. Cleaning the stains immediately is im- portant especially for stains, which contain artificial colors in the stain cre- ating liquid or semisolid substance. The colorant may leave a stain if kept or longer time. 3. Stain should not be removed by rub- bing. As far as possible, try to blot or ift the stain with cloth or plastic spatula and then clean the remaining stain with cloth or sponge. 4. Ifthe stain has dried, then gently brush off the material and then press with damp cloth or sponge till it disappears. 5. Do not use household detergents to clean the fabric. 6. Always use clean cotton cloth

5. Do not use household detergents to clean the fabric. 6. Always use clean cotton cloth for cleaning. Paint Care Following guidelines will help you to pro- tect your vehicle from corrosion effectively. Avoid Spillage or Direct contact of Air freshener liquid/chemicals with painted plastic parts. These chemicals may cause damage to paint like blisters, peel off, wrinkles etc Proper Cleaning * In order to protect your vehicle from corrosion it is recommended that you wash your vehicle thoroughly and fre- quently in case: + There is a heavy accumulation of dirt and mud especially on the underbody. + Itis driven in areas having high atmos- pheric pollution due to smoke, soot, dust, iron dust and other chemical pol- lutants. + It is driven in coastal areas.  * The underbody must be thoroughly pressure washed after every three months. + In addition to regularly washing your car, the following precautions need to be taken. Periodic Inspection + Regularly inspect your vehicle for any damage

precautions need to be taken. Periodic Inspection + Regularly inspect your vehicle for any damage in the paint film such as deep scratches and immediately get them repaired from an authorized service outlet, as these defects tend to accel- erate corrosion. * Inspect mud liners for damages. + Keep all drain holes clear from clog- ging. Proper Parking Always park your vehicle in shade to pro- tect it from harsh sunlight or in a well-ven- tilated garage so that there is no dampness on any part of the vehicle. Wiper Care To prevent damage to the wipers or wind- shield, do not operate the wipers when the windshield is dry. VEHICLE CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES To prevent damage to the wiper arms and other components, do not attempt to move the wipers manually FAST TAG FAST TAG is pasted on front windshield from the inside. It enables Electronic toll collection. = a IY PAStag @NOTE Do not attempt to rip or tamper the tag. It will disable the functionality of the tag 207  VEHICLE CARE AND

to rip or tamper the tag. It will disable the functionality of the tag 207  VEHICLE CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES VALUE CARE - AMC Value Care (AMC) is a fixed cost maintenance plan that guarantees protection against unexpected repairs & provides substantial savings through protection against inflation & price volatility of consumables during BEST VALUE the running of the vehicle. Our customers can choose from Value Care Gold, Value Care Silver, Promise to Protect (P2P) and Protect plus plan as per the requirement & usage to ensure hassle free, reliable & economic maintenance of the vehicle. - =| Coverage — Schedule Service and Wear & Tear. Advantages (Customer Benefits) VALUE CARE MAINTENANCE PLANS + Price protection against rising prices of lubes and parts. + Ahigher resale value for your vehicle. + Peace of mind with Cashless repairs & services. + Vehicle servicing at a workshop of your choice pan India. * Covers Repairs including Wear & Tear parts viz. Brakes, Suspension, Wiper,

your choice pan India. * Covers Repairs including Wear & Tear parts viz. Brakes, Suspension, Wiper, Clutch, Brake Pads, Brake Liners etc. * Covers Scheduled maintenance services including Lubricants, Parts, Wheel Alignment and Balancing Labour. + Available at unmatched value.... Huge Savings!!! + Savings on Goods & Services Tax whenever vehicle attend under AMC. Available Offers (Types of AMC ) + Silver AMC * Gold AMC + Promise to Protect (P2P) + Protect Plus 208  VEHICLE CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES Silver AMC Value Care Silver Plan covers the following: * Scheduled maintenance services at periodic interval of Kms for Labor, Parts & Consumables. Change of Oil Filter, Fuel Filter, Air Filter & Sedimenter. Change of Engine Oil, Transmission Oil. Change of Coolant, Brake Oil & Clutch Fluid*. General Checkup, Wheel Alignment / Balancing (Excluding Balancing Weight). aRWN > Washing of Vehicle, Wheel greasing as applicable. Gold AMC The value care Gold Plan extends your scheduled

of Vehicle, Wheel greasing as applicable. Gold AMC The value care Gold Plan extends your scheduled maintenance cover to include any normal wear and tear items identified during the scheduled service and other vehicle parts that need to replace during the period of cover arising from proper and uniform usage. * Scheduled maintenance services at periodic interval of Kms for Labor, Parts & Consumables. In addition to coverage mentioned under Silver AMC, the Gold AMC also covers Repairs or Replacement of Wear & Tear Items for both Parts & Labour. 1. Brake Pads, Brake Lines, Wheel Cylinders 2. Clutch Disc, Clutch Cover, Cables, Mountings. 3. Suspension Bush, Wiper Blades, Auxiliary Belt & other Wear & Tear Items 4. Washing of Vehicle, Wheel greasing as applicable. Promise To Protect (P2P) Value Care — Promise to protect (P2P) is a maintenance plan that guarantees protection against unexpected wear & tear repairs to provide substantial saving through protection against inflation & price

wear & tear repairs to provide substantial saving through protection against inflation & price volatility during the running of the vehicle. New Vehicle (under warranty vehicles) are eligible to avail this offer —Identified 13 wear & tear parts listed below Including Labour is 209  VEHICLE CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES covered in this AMC with the price range of 11 to 14 paisa per Km .*applicable to selected models* List of Covered Parts Clutch, Brake Pad, Brake Linings, Brake Disc, Wiper, Wheel Cylinder, Suspension Bushes, Engine Mountings, Ball Joints, Hoses, Auxiliary Belt, (Alternator & A/C Belt), Window Winder. Protect Plus The value care Protect plus Plan extends your scheduled maintenance cover to include coverage of P2P. It covers Scheduled main- tenance services — labour, parts & consumables + Identified 13 wear & tear parts of P2P plan Including Labour New Vehicle (under warranty vehicles) are eligible to avail this offer.*applicable to selected models”. @NOTE + AMC is

warranty vehicles) are eligible to avail this offer.*applicable to selected models”. @NOTE + AMC is available in the dealership from where you have purchased your vehicle. + We strongly recommend purchase of AMC at time of purchase of your vehicle to get benefit for coverage of Scheduled Services and Wear & Tear parts. + The Dealer Service Marketing Executive shall explain to you the Terms and conditions, Coverage and Owner’s responsibility. * One Time payment is to be made to avail AMC offer. + P2P & Protect plus offer valid on selected models & may vary from Model to Model, Variant to Variant. + Please read the offer eBooklet for further details about coverage and exclusions of various AMCs. + *Terms & condition apply. Owner’s Responsibility + Proper use, maintenance and care of the vehicle in accordance with the instructions contained in the Owner’s Manual and Service Booklet. The records of the same to be ensured in Owner’s Manual. + Retention of maintenance service bills. 210

records of the same to be ensured in Owner’s Manual. + Retention of maintenance service bills. 210  VEHICLE CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES | / We have been explained the Terms and conditions, Coverage and Owner's responsibility by the Dealer Service Marketing Execu- tive. al wish to avail | Do not wish to avail Value care AMC policy. Customer’s Signature Dealer’s Signature 211  VEHICLE CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES EXTENDED WARRANTY TATA MOTORS recommends the purchase of its extended warranty program. Coverage - Mechanical + Electrical Benefits + Insures you against unforeseen break down repair bills. + Documentation is simple and hassle free. + Near cashless & speedy claim Term 24 + 12 months or 75,000 kms whichever occurs first OR 24 + 24 months or 1,00,000 kms whichever occurs first OR 24 + 36 months or 1,25,000 kms whichever occurs first EXTENDED WARRANTY UP TO 4 YEARS Extended Warranty is available in the dealership from where you have purchased your vehicle. We strongly recommend

is available in the dealership from where you have purchased your vehicle. We strongly recommend purchase of Extended Warranty at time of purchase of your vehicle. Extended Warranty can be availed till warranty period from date of purchase of vehicle. The Dealer Service Marketing Executive shall explain to you the Terms and conditions, Coverage and Owner’s responsi- bility. * The 12 or 24 or 36 months extended warranty does not follow the 24 months Manufacturer’s warranty. + The extended warranty comes into force once the manufacturer’s warranty expires e.g. after 24 Months. + It is more restrictive as by the time it comes into force the vehicle is already 24 months old. 212  VEHICLE CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES What is Covered? Mechanical / Electrical break down as defined in this warranty and confirmed by the dealer within the stipulated terms and conditions. TATA MOT ORS dealer shall either rep air or replace any part found to be defective with a new p art or an equivalent at no

either rep air or replace any part found to be defective with a new p art or an equivalent at no cost to the owner for p arts or labour. Such defective parts which have been replaced will become property of TATA MOTORS PASSENGER VEHICLE LIMITED Comprehensive list of parts covered is mentioned in the Extended Warranty Booklet. What is not Covered? Please refer the Extended Warranty Booklet for details of the exclusion list. Soft copy of which will be provided by dealer. Owner’s Responsibility + Proper use, maintenance and care of the vehicle in accordance with the instructions contained in the Owner’s Manual and Service Booklet. The records of the same to be ensured in Owner’s Manual. + Retention of maintenance service bills. |/We have been explained the Terms and conditions, Coverage and Owner's responsibility by the Dealer Service Marketing Executive. | | wish to avail | Do not wish to avail extended warrant policy. Customer’s Signature Dealer’s Signature 213  VEHICLE CARE AND VALUE

avail extended warrant policy. Customer’s Signature Dealer’s Signature 213  VEHICLE CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES VALUE ADDED SERVICES Why are Corrosion Protection Waxes necessary? na Wi . RTH Corrosion is Caused by wy U Water/salt water, acid rain and atmospheric fallouts. BA DAH Critical Areas are BY Auto actives CAR CARE A u t Cavities: joints, crevices, spot welds, underbody Kro — * Corrosion is the most important factor when we talk about the vehicle life. If you treat your car well, you can prolong its life. + It is very dangerous to drive around in a corroded vehicle. * Corrosion creeps onto the vehicle internally and externally as well. The most dangerous kind of corrosion is often not discovered until it is too late. Benefits of Anti - Rust Treatment + Aprofessionally applied range of world class products offering real value to the new and used vehicle customer. + The treatment has been developed to withstand the harshest environmental and climatic conditions (rust.

treatment has been developed to withstand the harshest environmental and climatic conditions (rust. Pollutants, stone and gravel impact, etc.) + Insulates the cabin from external noises.. + Expensive tin work, denting and painting can be avoided. + Higher resale value for the vehicle. + Higher safety — uncorroded vehicle + 10 free checkups available TATA MOTORS has tied up with M/s Wurth, M/s Autokrom, M/s 3M India Lt d & M/s Bardahl for these world class treatment at af- 214  VEHICLE CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES fordable prices. These treatments are available in all authorized workshops. The Dealer Service Marketing Executive will explain to you the benefits and terms and conditions of this treatment. | / We have been explained the Benefits, Terms and conditions and the prices of these treatments by the Dealer Service Marketing Executive. al wish to avail | Do not wish to avail extended warrant policy. Customer’s Signature Dealer’s Signature 215  VEHICLE CARE AND VALUE ADDED

extended warrant policy. Customer’s Signature Dealer’s Signature 215  VEHICLE CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES VEHICLE EXTERIOR ENRICHMENT Why Vehicles are Painted? ag == + For Corrosion protection of the metal surfaces. . Wu RTH + Ease of application from other corrosion protection treatments. + Cheaper than other corrosion protection methods eg. Galvanizing, anodizing. + For decoration and identification. Au IQ cd Various Environmental Hazards Affecting Paints ron Environmental hazards: destroys your vehicle’s finish. CAR CARE Even as your new vehicle rolls off the assembly line, the paint is not protected. The Enemy Ultraviolet rays, pollution, tree sap, bird droppings, car wash chemicals, road salt and acid rain. Benefits Vehicle Exterior Enrichment + Removal of medium scratches, orange peel, oxidation, dust nibs etc. & swirl marks from painted surface. + Restoration of original gloss levels, UV protection after gloss is restored. + Cleaning & dressing of tyres, Bumpers and all

levels, UV protection after gloss is restored. + Cleaning & dressing of tyres, Bumpers and all exterior plastic moldings/trims. TATA MOTORS has tied up with M/s Autokrom, M/s 3M & M/s Wurth for this world class treatment at affordable prices. This treatment is available in all authorized workshops. The Dealer Service Marketing Executive will explain to you the bene-fits and terms and conditions of this treatment. 216  VEHICLE CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES VEHICLE INTERIOR ENRICHMENT Why Protect Your New Car’s Fabric Interior * Someone may soil your vehicle’s fabric carpet or seats. + Asignificant detractor from your vehicle’s resale value. + Apermanent stain on your vehicle’s interior fabric. The Enemy Drink spills, food stains, mud, ultraviolet rays, traffic and pets Benefits: Vehicle Interior Enrichment + Removal of medium stains and dirt from all interior parts of the car i.e., carpet, upholstery and roof lining. * Cleaning of windshield and all windows (inner and outer surfaces) +

upholstery and roof lining. * Cleaning of windshield and all windows (inner and outer surfaces) + Dressing of all internal plastics (e.g.: door pad trims) and rubber parts. + The treatment involves cleaning and dressing of all parts of the exposed interiors. * Specialised protection for seat fabric from liquid spills. TATA MOTORS has tied up with M/s Wurth and M/s Autokrom for this world class treatment at affordable prices. This treatment is available in all authorized workshops. The Dealer Service Marketing Executive will explain to you the benefits and terms and conditions of this treatment. |/We have been explained the Terms and conditions, Coverage and Owner's responsibility by the Dealer Service Marketing Executive. | | wish to avail | Do not wish to avail Extended warrant policy. Customer’s Signature Dealer’s Signature 217  218  VEHICLE WARRANTY: TERMS AND CONDITIONS We WARRANT each TATA PUNCH vehi- cle and parts thereof manufactured by us to be free from defect in material and

TATA PUNCH vehi- cle and parts thereof manufactured by us to be free from defect in material and workmanship subject to the following terms and conditions: 1. This warranty shall be for a period of 2 years from the date of sale of the car or a mileage of 75,000 Kms whichever occurs earlier. 2. Our obligation under this warranty shall be limited to repairing or replacing, free of charge, such parts of the car which, in our opinion, are defective, on the car being brought to us or to our dealers within the period. The parts so repaired or replaced shall also be warranted for quality and workmanship but such war- ranty shall be co-terminus with this original warranty. 3. Any part which is found to be defective and is replaced by us under the war- ranty shall be our property. 4. As for such parts as Tyres, Batteries, Audio and / or Video equipment (if WARRANTY - TERMS AND CONDITIONS any), etc. not manufactured by us but supplied by other parties, this warranty shall not apply, but buyers

not manufactured by us but supplied by other parties, this warranty shall not apply, but buyers of the car shall be entitled to, so far as permissi- ble by law, all such rights as we may have against such parties under their warranties in respect of such parts. . This warranty shall not apply if the car or any part thereof is repaired or al- tered otherwise than in accordance with our standard repair procedure or by any person other than from our sales or service establishments, our authorized dealers, service centres or service points in any way so as, in our judgment which shall be final and bind- ing, to affect its reliability, nor shall it apply if, in our opinion which shall be final and binding, the car is subjected to misuse, negligence, improper or in- adequate maintenance or accident or loading in excess of such carrying ca- pacity as certified by us, or such serv- ices as prescribed in our Owner's Manual are not carried out by the buyer through our sales or service es-

prescribed in our Owner's Manual are not carried out by the buyer through our sales or service es- tablishments, our authorized dealers, service centres or service points. . This warranty shall not apply to the replacement of normal wear parts, including without limitation, spark plugs, drive belts, hoses, wiper blades, fuses, clutch disc, brake shoes, brake pads, cables and all rubber parts (except oil seal and glass run). . This warranty shall not cover any in- herent normal deterioration of the car or any of its parts arising from the ac- tual use of the car or any damage due to negligent or improper operation or storage of the car. . This warranty shall not apply to normal maintenance services like oils & fluid changes, head lamps focusing, fas- tener retightening, wheel balancing and alignment, tyre rotation, adjust- ment of valve clearance, fuel timing, ig- nition timing and consumables like bulbs, fuel, air & oil filters and gas leaks in case of air conditioned cars. . This

like bulbs, fuel, air & oil filters and gas leaks in case of air conditioned cars. . This warranty shall not apply to any damage or deterioration caused by en- 219  WARRANTY - TERMS AND CONDITIONS vironmental pollution or bird droppings. Slight irregularities not recognized as affecting the function or quality of the vehicle or parts, such as slight noise or vibration, defects appearing only under particular or irregular operations are items considered characteristics of the vehicle. 10. This warranty shall be null and void if the car is subjected to abnormal use such as rallying, racing or participation in any other competitive sport. This warranty shall not apply to any repair or replacements as a result of accident or collision. 11. This warranty is expressly in lieu of all warranties, whether by law or other- wise, expressed or implied, and all other obligations or liabilities on our part and we neither assume, nor au- thorize any person to assume on our behalf, any other

on our part and we neither assume, nor au- thorize any person to assume on our behalf, any other liability arising from the sale of the car or any agreement in relation thereto. 12. The buyer shall have no other rights except those set out above and have, 220 in particular, no right to repudiate the sale, or any agreement or to claim any reduction in the purchase price of the car, or to demand any damages or compensation for losses, incidental or indirect, or inconvenience or conse- quential damages, loss of car, or loss of time, or otherwise, incurred or ac- crued. 13. Any claim arising from this warranty shall be recognized only if it is notified in writing to us or to our authorized dealer without any delay soon after such defects as covered & ascertained under this warranty. 14. This warranty is fully transferable to subsequent vehicle owner. Only un- expired remaining period of war- ranty applies. We reserve our rights to make any change or modification in design of the car or

ranty applies. We reserve our rights to make any change or modification in design of the car or its parts or to introduce any improvement therein or to incorporate in the car any ad- ditional part or accessory at any time with- out incurring any obligation to incorporate the same in the cars previously sold.  ENVIRONMENTAL SAFETY TATA MOTORS PASSENGER VEHICLE LIMITED is committed to pro-duce vehicles using environmentally —sus- tainable technology. A number of features have been incorporated in TATA MOTORS passenger vehicles which have been de- signed to ensure environmental compati- bility throughout the life cycle of the vehicle. We would like to inform you that your vehicle meets BS VI emission norms and this is being regularly validated at the manufacturing stages. As a user you too can protect the environ-ment by operating your vehicle in a proac-tive manner. A lot depends on your driving style and the way you maintain your vehi-cle. We have given a few tips for your guidance.

driving style and the way you maintain your vehi-cle. We have given a few tips for your guidance. Driving + Avoid frequent and violent accelera- tion. + Do not carry any unnecessary weight in the vehicle as it overloads the en- gine. Avoid using devices requiring high power consumption during slow city traffic condition. + Monitor the vehicle’s fuel consumption regularly and if showing rising trend get the vehicle immediately attended at the Company’s Authorised Service Outlets. * Switch off the engine during long stops at traffic jams or signals. If you need to keep the engine running, avoid unnec- essary revving it or stopping and start- ing. + It is not necessary to rev the engine before turning it off as it unnecessarily burns fuel. + Shift to higher gears as soon as it is possible. Use each gear upto 2/3rd of its maximum engine speed. + Achart indicating gear shifting speeds is given in this book. Maintenance + Ensure that recommended mainte- nance is carried out on the vehicle

in this book. Maintenance + Ensure that recommended mainte- nance is carried out on the vehicle reg- ularly at the Authorised Service Outlets. + Assoonas you see any leakages of oil or fuel in the vehicle we recommend to ENVIRONMENT SAFETY get it attended immediately. Use only recommended grades and specified quantity of lubricants. Get your vehicle checked for emission periodically by an authorised dealer. Check Air filter, fuel filter and oil filter periodically and replaced, if required, as recommended by TATA MOTORS. Do not pour used oils or coolants into the sewage drains, garden soil or open streams. Dispose the used filters and batteries in compliance with the current legislation. Do not allow unauthorized person to tamper with engine settings or to carry modifications on the vehicle. Never allow the vehicle to run out of fuel. Parts like brake liners, clutch discs should be vacuum cleaned. Do not use compressed air for cleaning these parts, which may spread hazardous dust in

cleaned. Do not use compressed air for cleaning these parts, which may spread hazardous dust in the atmosphere. 221  ENVIRONMENT SAFETY While carrying out servicing or repairs of your vehicle, you should pay keen attention to some of the important en- gine aggregates and wiring harnesses, which greatly affect emission. These components are: 1. Engine Management System (EMS) * ECU + EMS sensors & Corresponding wiring harness * Electrical connections to all sen- sors & actuators 2. Fuel Injection System + Fuel Pump + Fuel filter + Fuel Injectors 3. Air intake System + Air filter & connecting pipes 4. Exhaust after Treatment System * Catalytic Converter 5. Ignition System * — Ignition coil + Spark plug 222 This Owner’s manual contains further in- formation on driving precautions and maintenance care leading to environment protection. Please familiarize yourself with these aspects before driving.  Customer’s copy Dealer’s copy ap TATA PDI Coupon PUNCH bd PDICouponn PlJINC id Pre Delivery

Customer’s copy Dealer’s copy ap TATA PDI Coupon PUNCH bd PDICouponn PlJINC id Pre Delivery Inspection Pre Delivery Inspection AVAIL ALL SERVICES TO GET BENEFIT OF WARRANTY This Coupon entitles for free labour jobs.(Refer maintenance section) Owner’s Name: Owner’s Name: VIN No.: VIN No.: Engine / Motor No.: Engine / Motor No.: Reg. No.: ODO Reading: Reg. No.: Date of Sale: Date of Service: ODO Reading: Service Dealer code: Date of Service: | hereby certify that the PDI has been carried out to my entire satisfaction. Service Dealer’s Stamp & Signature Customer’s Signature Service Dealer’s Stamp & Signature (Free Service coupons are valid at all TATA Authorized Service Centers in India)   Customer’s copy a tata 1° Free Service Coupon PUNCH Valid for 1000 - 2000 kms. OR 2 months, Whichever is earlier Owner’s Name: VIN No.: Engine / Motor No.: Reg. No.: ODO Reading: Date of Service: Service Dealer’s Stamp & Signature Dealer’s copy qe tata 1°Free Service Coupon P (IN C l4 Valid for 1000 -

Dealer’s Stamp & Signature Dealer’s copy qe tata 1°Free Service Coupon P (IN C l4 Valid for 1000 - 2000 kms. OR 2 months, whichever is earlier. AVAIL ALL SERVICES TO GET BENEFIT OF WARRANTY This Coupon entitles for free labour jobs.(Refer maintenance section) Owner's Name: VIN No.: Engine / Motor No.: Reg. No.: ODO Reading: Date of Sale: Date of Service: Service Dealer code: | hereby certify that the service has been carried out to my entire satisfaction. Customer’s Signature Service Dealer’s Stamp & Signature (Free Service coupons are valid at all TATA Authorized Service Centers in India)   Customer’s copy a tata 2"™ Free Service Coupon PUNCH Valid for 7000 - 8000 kms. OR 6 months, whichever is earlier Owner’s Name: VIN No.: Engine / Motor No.: Reg. No.: ODO Reading: Date of Service: Service Dealer’s Stamp & Signature Dealer’s copy <p tata 2 Free Service Coupon P (JIN Cif Valid for 7000 - 8000 kms. OR 6 months, whichever is earlier. AVAIL ALL SERVICES TO GET BENEFIT OF WARRANTY This

- 8000 kms. OR 6 months, whichever is earlier. AVAIL ALL SERVICES TO GET BENEFIT OF WARRANTY This Coupon entitles for free labour jobs.(Refer maintenance section) Owner's Name: VIN No.: Engine / Motor No.: Reg. No.: ODO Reading: Date of Sale: Date of Service: Service Dealer code: | hereby certify that the service has been carried out to my entire satisfaction. Customer’s Signature Service Dealer’s Stamp & Signature (Free Service coupons are valid at all TATA Authorized Service Centers in India)   Customer’s copy a tata 3" Free Service Coupon PUNCH Valid for 14,500 — 15,500 kms. OR 12 months, whichever is earlier Owner’s Name: VIN No.: Engine / Motor No.: Reg. No.: ODO Reading: Date of Service: Service Dealer’s Stamp & Signature Dealer’s copy qe tata 3% Free Service Coupon P (IJIN C i4 Valid for 14,500 — 15,500 kms. OR 12 months, whichever is earlier. AVAIL ALL SERVICES TO GET BENEFIT OF WARRANTY This Coupon entitles for free labour jobs.(Refer maintenance section) Owner's Name: VIN

OF WARRANTY This Coupon entitles for free labour jobs.(Refer maintenance section) Owner's Name: VIN No.: Engine / Motor No.: Reg. No.: ODO Reading: Date of Sale: Date of Service: Service Dealer code: | hereby certify that the service has been carried out to my entire satisfaction. Customer’s Signature Service Dealer’s Stamp & Signature (Free Service coupons are valid at all TATA Authorized Service Centers in India)

