CAR IDENTIFICATION RECORD OWNER’S NAME : . Following items are provided ADDRESS: with your vehicle: SELLING DEALER CODE : 1. Owner’s Manual DATE OF DELIVERY : 2. Aux.Battery Warranty Card DATE OF REGISTRATION : (if applicable) REGISTRATION NO : 3. First Aid Kit MOTOR NO: 4. Advance Warning Triangle 5. Jack CHASSIS NO : . . 6. Spare Fuses (Provided in fuse TRANSAXLE NO : box) 7. Tool Kit AUX. BATTERY MAKE : 3 ; AUX.BATTERY SR. NO: Siew Gere ig Gaus AUX. BATTERY CODE : KEY NO.: THE WARRANTY ON THIS VEHICLE IS VALID ONLY IF THE DETAILS ARE FILLED, SIGNED AND STAMPED BY THE SELLING DEALER DEALER’S SIGNATURE AND STAMP  <p TATA PUNCH EV OWNER’S MANUAL TATA MOTORS REV 00 / APR 2024  CUSTOMER ASSISTANCE In our constant endeavour to provide assistance and complete service backup, TATA MOTORS has established an all India customer assistance centre. In case you have a query regarding any aspect of your vehicle, our Customer Assistance Centre will be glad to assist you on our Toll Free no. 1800

your vehicle, our Customer Assistance Centre will be glad to assist you on our Toll Free no. 1800 209 8282 You can also approach nearest TATA MOTORS EV dealer. TATA MOTORS 24X7 Roadside Assistance Program offers tech- nical help in the event of a breakdown. Call the toll-free Road- side Assistance. QUALITY SERVICE DIAGNOSTIC E ASSESSMENT TRAINING ANI N For additional information, refer to "24X7 Roadside Assistance" section in the Owner’s manual. For updated Owner's Manual and Infotainment Manual refer below link https://ev.tatamotors.com/support.html For Dealer Network refer below link https://ev.tatamotors.com/dealer-locator.html &%@ REFINISHING SOLUTIONS BODY & PAINT VALUE CARE EXTENDED WAR TY  FOREWORD Dear Customer, Welcome to the TATA MOTORS family, Thank you on the purchase of TATA MOTORS vehicle. As a global Indian automobile manufacturer, we focus on innovation, technology and build high quality products with exceeding values of “Connecting Aspirations”. The Owner’s Manual

build high quality products with exceeding values of “Connecting Aspirations”. The Owner’s Manual will familiarize you with the operations, equipment description, features that are either as standard or optional on your vehicle. It is requested you read this manual carefully and follow the instructions and recommendations as mentioned. You are advised to carry out service, maintenance and repairs at TATA MOTORS EV Dealers and EV Authorized service centers through out the life of your vehicle. Always use genuine parts for continued performance of your vehicle. Avoid modification, non-genuine accessories fitment on your vehicle. TATA MOTORS does not carry any liability arising due to it. Always keep this manual in the vehicle. You can contact our dealer or Customer Assistance toll free no.(1800 209 8282) in case of any query or support required. Information provided in this Owner’s Manual is explicit at the time of publication. However, as TATA MOTORS continues to make changes and

is explicit at the time of publication. However, as TATA MOTORS continues to make changes and improve products, it reserves the right to make changes in this manual or any product at any time, without notice and without any obligations. We look forward for your continued association with us for many years to come. Wishing you a Safe and pleasant driving experience. TATA PASSENGER ELECTRIC MOBILITY LTD. Floor 3, 4, Plot-18, Nanavati Mahalaya,Mudhana Shetty Marg, BSE, Fort, Mumbai, (MH) - 400 001, India © Copyright 2024 TATAMOTORS All rights reserved, may not be copied, translated or reproduced in whole or in part without written permission from TATA MOTORS, iii   CONTENTS 01. INTRODUCTION TO EV Types of Charging 46 EV Overview 4 Charging Do’s And Don'ts 59 05. OPENING AND CLOSING 02. SAFETY Keys 61 Overview 5 Important Information 1 Types of Keys (if equipped) 62 Seats 12 Doors 67 Seat Belts 14 Windows 68 Anti-lock Braking System (ABS) 36) Bonnet and Charging Flap 70 Guideline For

Belts 14 Windows 68 Anti-lock Braking System (ABS) 36) Bonnet and Charging Flap 70 Guideline For Preventing Fire And Electric 36 Tail Gate Opening 73 Shock Anti-theft Device-immobilizer/ PEPS 38 Digital Display (4” Inch Flat) Option | 75 Digital Display (4" Inch Curve) Option Il 76 High Voltage Battery System 39 Driver Information System (DIS) 80 Tips To Conserve Battery Life 41 Digital Display (7” Inch)(if equipped) 94 Driver Information System (DIS) 97 Digital Display (10.25" Inch 113 Instructions To Follow 43 Driver Information System (DIS) 118 Important Tips 45 Warnings and Indicators 132  CONTENTS Display Messages On Instrument Cluster (if 1441 equipped) Equipped) Cabin Air Purification 197 Audio Reminders 144 Fascia Switches 198 Power Sunroof (if equipped) 199 07. STARTING AND DRIVING Steering Mounted Controls (if equipped) 204 Before You Start Your EV 147 Infotainment System Display 206 Electric Power Assisted Steering (EPAS) 149 MIC (if equipped) 207 Steering Lock / Unlock And

206 Electric Power Assisted Steering (EPAS) 149 MIC (if equipped) 207 Steering Lock / Unlock And Ignition Switch 150 Speakers & Tweeter (if equipped) 207 Driving Tips 152 USB Port (if equipped) 208 Tips To Get Maximum Range While Driving EV 154 Power Socket 208 Drive And Gear Modes 159 Lamps 209 Operating of Lights and Wipers 161 Mood Lights/ambient Lights (if equipped) 210 Seats Adjustments 164 Vehicle Telematics 211 Mirrors 166 Wireless Power Charging (if equipped) 212 Driving Support System 169 Antenna 218 Automatic Vehicle Hold (if equipped) 188 Head Lamp and Tail Lamp 219 Roof Rail 222 08. INTERIOR AND EXTERIOR FEATURES Climate Control 191 Fully Automatic Temperature Control (FATC) (if 192 vi  09. STOWAGE AREA Storage Compartment 223 Glove Box 224 Driver Side Coin Box 225 Utility Pockets on Front Doors. 225 Utility Pockets on Rear Doors 225 Center Console 226 Foldable Arm Rest (if equipped) 226 Luggage Compartment 227 Hooks (if equipped) 228 Luggage Compartment Cover 229 10.

(if equipped) 226 Luggage Compartment 227 Hooks (if equipped) 228 Luggage Compartment Cover 229 10. EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN Emergency Equipment 231 In Case of Flat Tyre 232 Puncture Repair Kit Option 1 (if equipped) 235 Puncture Repair Kit Option 2 (if equipped) 241 Towing 248 Fuses 250 Bulb Specifications 265 CONTENTS 24 X 7 Roadside Assistance 266 11. TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS Lubricant Specifications 269 Vehicle Specifications 270 Vehicle Dimensions 273 Aggregate Identification 274 12. MAINTENANCE AND CARE Service Instructions 275 Service Schedule 276 Motor Compartment 282 Brake Fluid Level 283 Windshield Washer Fluid Level 283 12V Battery 284 Tyres 286 Vehicle Parking for Long Duration (non - Use Maintenance) Be Smart Key Battery Replacement (For PEPS 289 variant) vii  CONTENTS On Board Diagnostic (OBD II) System 290 Do it Yourself 291 Car Care 292 Value Added Services 295 Vehicle Interior Enrichment 297 13. WARRANTY Vehicle Warranty - Terms and Conditions 299 14. EXTENDED WARRANTY

Enrichment 297 13. WARRANTY Vehicle Warranty - Terms and Conditions 299 14. EXTENDED WARRANTY Extended Warranty - Terms and Conditions 301 viii  EV OVERVIEW INTRODUCTION TO EV audio system, supplementary restraint An electric vehicle is powered by a battery - Edrive and it does not need any type of fossil fuel. While conventional vehicles use an internal combustion engine and gaso- line or diesel as fuel, electric vehicles use electrical energy that is stored inside the high voltage battery. As a result, electric vehicles run on electricity, they are eco- friendly - they do not require fuel and are zero emission vehicles. Review and Characteristics This is an electric vehicle. Some of the ve- hicle’s systems operate differently and have different operating characteristics than vehicles equipped with an internal combustion engine. It is important to care- fully read the entire Owner’s Manual for this reason. This Vehicle uses two types of battery sys- tems- a high voltage system in

Manual for this reason. This Vehicle uses two types of battery sys- tems- a high voltage system in which a high voltage battery powers the inverter and electric motor which in turn propel the vehicle and a low voltage system in which a 12-volt battery provides power to the ve- hicle systems and features such as the systems, headlights and windshield wipers. The high voltage battery also charges the 12-volt battery. The high voltage battery must be charged with electricity before the vehicle can be driven. As the vehicle operates, the battery gradually discharges and when completely discharged, the vehicle needs to be plugged in for charging. To increase the range of the EV, regenerative braking has been incorporated. Basically, while the ve- hicle is coasting or braking, the motor works as a generator and converts the ve- hicle motion (kinetic energy) to electrical energy to charge the HV battery. This vehicle is considered to be an envi- ronmentally friendly vehicle because it does

HV battery. This vehicle is considered to be an envi- ronmentally friendly vehicle because it does not emit exhaust gases, and thus is cleaner than the conventional vehicles in terms of air pollution. Main Components 3 IN 1 Unit ¢ On-Board Charger (OBC): A device that charges the high voltage battery by converting AC power from a domes- tic supply into DC power and supplying it to the battery. ¢« DC-DC Converter: A device that con- verts HV DC power from the HV bat- tery to LV DC power which is required to maintain LV battery charge, which in turn powers the LV systems like lights, wipers, infotainment, etc. in the vehi- cle. ¢ Power Distribution Unit: Distributes power from the high voltage battery to the HV components like inverter, DC- DC converter, E-compressor etc. ¢ Uni-directional 3 in 1 Convertor: The Uni-directional AC-DC/DC-AC_ con- verter regulates the active power trans- ferred from the DC battery to the AC powered devices. Additionally, it main- tains unity power factor

from the DC battery to the AC powered devices. Additionally, it main- tains unity power factor while control- ling active power transferred from the AC grid to the DC battery.  INTRODUCTION TO EV Electric Motor: A device that converts electrical energy into rotational me- chanical energy which is then trans- ferred as rotational torque to the wheels through the gearbox. High Voltage Battery (lithium ion Phosphate ) - An on board high volt- age electrical energy storage device General Warnings Your vehicle contains a sealed Li-ion high voltage battery. If the Li-ion bat- tery is disposed of improperly, there is a risk of severe burns and electrical shock that may result in serious injury or death and there is also a risk of en- vironmental damage. The EV system uses high voltage DC current. The system can be hot during and after starting and when the vehicle is shut off. Be careful of both the high voltage and the high temperature. Avoid being exposed to high-voltage components in the

the high voltage and the high temperature. Avoid being exposed to high-voltage components in the first place. Observe all high-voltage warning labels these indicate high-voltage components or areas. Observe all orange cables and other high voltage components, large and small these carry high voltage. Do not touch high-voltage components while the vehicle is in operation or cranked state. Do not disassemble, remove or re- place high-voltage parts and cables as well as their connectors because they can cause severe burns or electric shock that may result in serious injury or death. The vehicle high voltage system has no user serviceable parts. It is recom- mended that you take your vehicle to a TATA MOTORS EV Authorised Serv- ice Centre for any necessary mainte- nance. Pay special attention to pedestrians. Because there is no motor noise, pedestrians may not know the vehicle is approaching, moving or about to move, and may step into the path of vehicle travel. When leaving the vehicle,

moving or about to move, and may step into the path of vehicle travel. When leaving the vehicle, be sure to turn off the EV system. The EV system uses high voltage current. Failure to follow the proper handling instructions may cause serious injury or death. Safety Of The High-voltage System Do not perform any modifications or work on the vehicle, especially mainte- nance and repair work on the high-volt- age system and the body and avoid retrofitting accessories.  If work is not carried out properly, there is the risk of fire and fatal injury from electrocution due to the high-voltage system. TATA MOTORS recommends to have modifications and work on the vehicle only to be carried out by an authorized TATA MOTORS EV Authorised Service Centre or one that operates according to TATA MOTORS specifications with personnel trained accordingly. Your vehicle’s high-voltage system is a self-contained system. Safety is en- sured as long as no unauthorized work is performed on high voltage

system. Safety is en- sured as long as no unauthorized work is performed on high voltage electrical components or on the chassis. High-voltage System: Contact With Water The high-voltage system is typically safe even in the following example situations: ¢ Water in the foot well, for instance after a rainstorm when sunroof was kept open. * Liquid escapes in the trunk. In these cases there is no risk of injury from electrocution. Other damage to the vehicle is possible. INTRODUCTION TO EV Common Terminologies And Abbre- viations EV - Electric Vehicle HV battery — High Voltage battery LV battery — Low Voltage (12V) battery AC — Alternating Current DC — Direct Current OBC — On Board Charger PDU — Power Distribution Unit VCU — Vehicle Control Unit BMS - Battery Management System OBD - On Board Diagnostics SoC — State of Charge SRS — Supplementary Restraint System CRS - Child Restraint System DAB -— Driver Airbag PAB — Passenger Airbag ABS - Anti-lock Braking System EBD - Electronic Brake

DAB -— Driver Airbag PAB — Passenger Airbag ABS - Anti-lock Braking System EBD - Electronic Brake Force Distribution ESC - Electronic Stability Control PEPS - Passive Entry/Passive Start  INTRODUCTION TO EV ESCL - Electronic Column Steering Lock EPAS - Electric Power Assisted Steering LED — Light Emitting Diode DRL — Daytime Running Lamp ORVM - Outer Rear View Mirror IRVM — Inside Rear View Mirror EC-IRVM — Electric Chromic Inside Rear View Mirror HVAC — Heating Ventilation and Air Con- ditioning FATC — Fully Automatic Temperature Con- trol DIS — Driver Information System DTE - Distance to Empty IGN — Ignition ACC — Accessory EPB - Electronic Parking Brake (EPB) CPL — Centre Position Light  OVERVIEW Know Your Vehicle * Image for your reference, actual vehicle may differ. nN ANON FW INTRODUCTION TO EV . Bonnet . Turn Indicator/ DRL/ Position Lamp . Head Lamp . Fog Lamp . Centre Position Lamp . Front Camera . Charging Flap . Front Windshield Wipers 9. Sunroof 10. Roof Rails 11. Windows

Lamp . Front Camera . Charging Flap . Front Windshield Wipers 9. Sunroof 10. Roof Rails 11. Windows 12. Rear View Mirror with Camera 13. Door Handle Switch (DHS) 14. Alloy Wheels  INTRODUCTION TO EV * Image for your reference, actual vehicle may differ. . Turn Indicator . Stop Lamp / Rear Position Lamp . Reverse lamp (Option |) . Reflex Reflector . Rear Parking Sensors . Tail Gate Open Switch . Rear Camera . Rear Windshield Wiper 9. High Mounted Stop Lamp 10. Shark Fin Antenna 11. Reverse lamp (Option II) ANOABKWHNH =  ANOaARWN = * Image for your reference, actual vehicle may differ. INTRODUCTION TO EV . Door Opening Lever . ORVM adjusting Knob . Express Down . Power Window Switches . Inhibit Switch . Bonnet Opening Lever . Driver side Coin Box . Seat Ventilation 9. 10. Regeneration Lever 11. Steering wheel Seat switches 12. Combi Switch RHS  INTRODUCTION TO EV * Image for your reference, actual vehicle may differ. . Instrument Cluster . Horn . Driver Air Bag . Start/Stop Switch .

actual vehicle may differ. . Instrument Cluster . Horn . Driver Air Bag . Start/Stop Switch . Gear Mode . Drive Modes NOP WDNY = . Hazard Warning Switch 8. Infotainment Display 9. Passenger Airbag 10. Glove Box 11. Fascia Switches 12. Parking Brake 13. Power Socket & USB 14. Arm Rest 15. Storage  INTRODUCTION TO EV Important Messages CAUTION In this Owner’s Manual, you will find the text under the heading “WARNING”, It indicates to be careful. You are capa- “CAUTION” and “NOTE” which highlights —_ ble of doing something that might result important information. Pay particular atten- in damage to equipment. tion to these highlighted messages. The Images / Illustrations in this owner’s man- ual are only for reference. It may defer with actual vehicle. @ NOTE Indicates additional information that will assist you in gaining the optimum ben- efit and care for your vehicle. ZX WARNING Indicates procedures or information that must be followed precisely in order to avoid the possibility of

procedures or information that must be followed precisely in order to avoid the possibility of severe personal injury and serious damage to the vehi- cle.   IMPORTANT INFORMATION Safe Driving Safety consciousness not only ensures your safety and the safety of other road users, but it also helps to reduce the wear and tear on your vehicle. Safe Driving Depends On: How quickly you make decisions to avoid an accident. Your ability to concentrate. How well you can see and judge ob- jects. How well familiar you are with your ve- hicle controls and its capabilities. Safety Tips Always take into account the road con- ditions, weather conditions, vehicle speed in order to prevent accidents. Turn ‘ON’ the side indicators at least 30 meters before taking a turn or changing the lane. Decelerate to a safe speed before tak- ing turn. Do not apply brakes during cornering. When overtaking other vehicles, watch out for the oncoming vehicle. Never drive under the influence of al- cohol or drugs. If

watch out for the oncoming vehicle. Never drive under the influence of al- cohol or drugs. If your vehicle is equipped with info- tainment/ navigation system, set and make changes to your travel route only when the vehicle is parked. Program radio presets with the vehicle parked, and use your programmed presets to make radio use quicker and simpler. If your car gets flooded and has soaked carpeting or water on the floor- ing, you should not try to start the ve- SAFETY hicle, we recommend to kindly contact TATA MOTORS EV Authorised Service Centre. 11  SAFETY SEATS Your vehicle is provided with good seating comfort. To make your journey more safe and enjoyable we recommend you to fol- low below warnings and cautions. Driver’s seat AX WARNING * Do not adjust seat while driving / ve- hicle is moving. Doing so could re- sult in loss of control, and an accident causing death, serious in- jury, or property damage. + Always sit as far back as possible from the steering wheel while main-

jury, or property damage. + Always sit as far back as possible from the steering wheel while main- taining comfortable control of the vehicle. Fitment of seat covers on driver seat with airbags is strictly prohibited. * Do not keep any sitting cushion on seats. This may result in serious or fatal injury in the event of accident. + After adjusting the seat make sure it is securely locked by pushing it for- ward and backwards without using 12 lock release lever. Sudden or unex- pected movement of the driver’s seat could cause to lose control of the vehicle resulting in an accident. + All passengers must be seated in seats and restrained with seat belt properly while riding in vehicle + If there are occupants in the rear seats, be careful while adjusting the front seat position. Front Passenger Seat A\ WARNING Never ride in a vehicle with a front seat-back fully reclined. This may lead to serious injuries. Fitment of seat cov- ers on front passenger seat with airbags is strictly

lead to serious injuries. Fitment of seat cov- ers on front passenger seat with airbags is strictly prohibited. Rear Seat Back AX WARNING The rear seatback must be securely latched. If not, passengers and objects could thrown forward resulting in seri- ous injury in the event of a sudden stop or collision. Luggage and other objects in boot should be kept flat. If large, heavy, or piled they must be secured properly. No passenger should ride in the boot area or sit or lie on folded seat- backs while the vehicle is in motion. Applicable for Hatchback/SUV ZX WARNING « Under no circumstances should ob- jects be piled higher than the seat- backs. Failure to follow these warnings could result in serious in- jury in the event of a sudden stop or collision. Ensure that objects are se- curely fastened. + Storing items against seatback or in any other way interfering with proper locking of a seatback could result in serious or fatal injury in a sudden stop or collision After reset- ting the

could result in serious or fatal injury in a sudden stop or collision After reset- ting the seatback to its seating posi- tion make sure it is securely latched  by pushing it forward and back- wards CAUTION Your hands might cut or injured by the sharp edges of the seats mechanism during looking for small objects trapped under the seats or between the seat and the center console. Head Restraint Front Seat Adjust the head restraint so that it is as close to the head as possible and center of the head restraint supports the back o' the head at eye level. Correctly adjusted | Incorectly adjusted | incorrectly adjusted SAFETY AX WARNING Do not drive the vehicle without the seat head restraints. Head restraints are in- tended to help reduce injuries during an accident. Rear Seat (If equipped) Adjust the head restraint so that it is as close to the head as possible and the cen- er of the head restraint supports the back of the head at eye level. 13  SAFETY SEAT BELTS This section describes

restraint supports the back of the head at eye level. 13  SAFETY SEAT BELTS This section describes your Vehicle’s Seat belts, Airbags and Child restraints system. Please read and follow all these instruc- tions carefully to minimize risk of severe injury or death. + Seat belts are the primary restraints system in the vehicle. All occupants, including the driver, should always wear seat belts. Your vehicle is equipped with three point seat belts for all occupants. + Sit back and adjust the driver seat. Make sure that your seat is adjusted to a good driving position and the back of the seat is upright. 14 Buckling The Seat Belt ds INSERT TO LOCK PRESS TO UNLOCK Grasp the tongue then slowly pull ou he seat belt over the shoulder and across the chest. When the seat belt is long enough to fit, insert the tongue into the lock buckle until you hear a “CLICK” which indicates that the seat- belt is securely locked. (Refer “IN- SERT TO LOCK” image) Position the lap portion of seat belt across

is securely locked. (Refer “IN- SERT TO LOCK” image) Position the lap portion of seat belt across your pelvic bone, below your abdomen. To remove slack, pull up a bit on the shoulder seat belt. To loosen he lap portion seat belt if it is too tight, tilt the tongue and pull on the lap seat belt. A snug seat belt reduces the risk of sliding under the seat belt in a colli- sion. Ensure that the seat belt running over the body (shoulder segment and lap segment) does not have any twist. Twisted seat belt may not offer effec- tive protection when required. Ensure that the seat belt webbing is straight and not twisted. Twisted seat belts may not work properly in case of collision.  Releasing The Seat Belt To release the seat belt, push the red but- ton on the lock buckle (refer “PRESS TO UNLOCK’ image). Ensure to hold seat belt during unlocking and release it slowly to- wards the seat belt mounting. The seat belt will automatically retract to its stowed position. If necessary, slide the

mounting. The seat belt will automatically retract to its stowed position. If necessary, slide the tongue down the webbing to allow the seat belt to retract fully. ZX WARNING Due to retractor reversal action if you leave the seat belt from the unlock po- sition it may hit you or parts like glass in the way which may cause injury to you or damage to the vehicle. ZX WARNING Each seating position and seat belt assembly must be used by one oc- cupant. Be careful not to damage or tamper the seat belt webbing or hardware. Inspect the seat belt system period ically, checking for cuts, frays, or loose parts. A frayed or torn seatbelt could rip apart in a collision and leave you with no protection. If the seat belt webbing or hardware is damaged, get it replaced immedi- ately at TATA MOTORS EV Autho- rised service centre. Do not insert any items such as coins, clips, etc. into the seat belt buckles, and be careful not to spill liquids into these parts. If foreign materials get into a seat belt

and be careful not to spill liquids into these parts. If foreign materials get into a seat belt buckle, the seat belt will not work properly. Do not wear seat belts over hard, sharp or fragile items in clothing, such as pens, keys, spectacles etc. Do not use any accessories on seat belts or modify in any way the seat- belt system. Devices claiming to im- prove occupant comfort or repositioning the seat belt, can re- duce the protection provided by the seat belt and increase the chance of serious injury in a collision. SAFETY Use of Seat Belts For Pregnant Woman AX WARNING Pregnant women must wear a cor- rectly positioned seat belt. It is safer for mother as well as unborn child. Pregnant women should wear the lap part of the seat belt across the Pelvic Bone and as snug across the pelvic bone (hips) as possible. Keep the seat belt low so that it does not come across the abdomen. That way the strong bones of the hips will take the force if there is a collision. 15  SAFETY Seat Belt

way the strong bones of the hips will take the force if there is a collision. 15  SAFETY Seat Belt Warning Lamp in 4” Cluster 7” & 10.25” Cluster Your vehicle is equipped with Seat Belt Reminder (SBR) for all occupants. NOTE For Driver and Co-driver seat - Whenever an occupant is not sitting in any seating position then seat belt re-minder beeping sound will not be played in instrument cluster. If any material is kept on any seat then SBR beeping sound may be played in instrument cluster. Please do not keep any material on seat. The seat belt warning lamp reminds you to fasten the seat belt. + Ifthe driver co-driver and rear passen- ger do not fasten seat belt, seat belt re- minder lamp will blink and a buzzer will 16 sound for pre-defined duration until the all seat belts are buckled. ¢ — If front passenger seat is occupied by child, system may detect occupancy and warn with front passenger seat belt warning. It is not taken to mean child can occupy front passenger seat and use seat

seat belt warning. It is not taken to mean child can occupy front passenger seat and use seat belt. Please refer CRS section for recommended seating po- sition if child is sitting with child seat. Using unauthorized after-market seat cover may affect function of occupant sensor. TATA MOTORS does not rec- ommend any non-validated seat covers on seats. Seat Belts With Pre — Tensioner (if equipped) You can use the pre-tensioner seat belts in the same manner as ordinary seat belts. The seat belt pre-tensioner system works in conjunction with the Supplementary Re- straints System (SRS-Airbags). In the event of a collision, as may be necessary, pre-tensioner tightens the seat belt so that it fits the occupant’s body more snugly. When pre-tensioner activates, there could be some noise and release of smoke. This is normal and there are no health hazards or fire risk.  Seat Belt With Load Limiter (if equipped) You can use the load limiter in the same manner as ordinary seat belts. The seat

(if equipped) You can use the load limiter in the same manner as ordinary seat belts. The seat belt load limiter system works in conjunc- tion with the Supplementary Restraints System (SRS-Airbags). In the event of a collision, as may be necessary, load limiter reduces the load on the rib cage region of the occupant. If the vehicle has been involved in a colli- sion, get it inspected immediately at TATA MOTORS EV Authorized Service Centre. SAFETY 17  SAFETY Supplementary Restraint System (SRS - Airbags) The SRS [Supplementary Restraint system] is designed to provide protection to occu- pants in case of collision or sudden impact, when crash is detected, the SRS airbag sys- tem deploys airbags to help reduce the risk of injury to the occupant. It works in conjunction with seat belts. 18 There are 6 airbags provided in your car: Diver Airbag Front Passenger Airbag Side Airbag RH Side Airbag LH Curtain Airbag RH Curtain Airbag LH The driver airbag is mounted in the centre of the steering

LH Curtain Airbag RH Curtain Airbag LH The driver airbag is mounted in the centre of the steering wheel. The front passenger airbag is located inside the dashboard in front of the passenger seat. The airbags have suitable indications on steering wheel and on dash board. Q2aPPoNn > Side airbags are mounted in front row seats. Curtain airbags are mounted above the doors along the roof on both sides. The word ‘AIRBAG’ is marked at adjacent locations of respective airbags.  The ‘SRS’ system also comprises of the following components depending upon the provided safety features in vehicle. * Seat belt Pre-tensioners * Seat belt with load limiters « Airbag ‘SRS’ ECU (Electronic Control Unit) * Collision Sensors « SRS wiring harness * SRS Warning lamp The System is active when ignition switch is in the “ON” position or the ignition mode is “ON”. Airbags are designed to inflate in collisions when required. In the event of a collision, the collision sen- sors will detect signals, and if the

when required. In the event of a collision, the collision sen- sors will detect signals, and if the Airbag ECU judges that the signals represent a severe collision, will trigger the airbags. The inflated Airbags provide a cushion to the occupants. The Airbag inflates and de- flates so quickly that you may not even re- alize that it has activated. The Airbag will neither hinder your view nor make it hurdle to exit the vehicle. Airbag inflation is virtually instantaneous and occurs with considerable force, ac- companied by loud noise and smoke, which is normal. The inflated airbag, to- gether with seat belts, limit the movement of an occupant, thereby reducing the risk of injury. When an airbag inflates, you may see some smoke-like particles. The particles are a normal by-product of the process that generates the non-toxic gas used for airbag inflation. These airborne particles may irritate the skin, eyes, nose, or throat. If you have skin or eye irritation, rinse the area with water.

the skin, eyes, nose, or throat. If you have skin or eye irritation, rinse the area with water. For nose or throat irrita- tion, move to fresh air. Also sometimes the smoke can cause breathing problems, in such cases get fresh air promptly. After inflation, airbag provides a gradual cushioning effect for the occupant there- after deflates. It is not advisable to drive your vehicle after the airbags have been deployed. If you are involved in another collision, the airbags will not be in place to protect you. SAFETY @ NOTE * Open your windows and doors as soon as possible after collision to re- duce prolonged exposure to the smoke and powder released by the inflating Airbag. + Do not touch the Airbag container’s internal components immediately after an Airbag has inflated. The parts that come into contact with an inflating Airbag may be very hot. + Always wash exposed skin areas thoroughly with lukewarm water and mild soap. A\ WARNING + Even in vehicle with airbags, you and your

with lukewarm water and mild soap. A\ WARNING + Even in vehicle with airbags, you and your passengers must always wear the seat belts provided. In order to minimize the risk and sever- ity of injury in the event of a collision. + lf an occupant is out of position dur- ing collision, the rapidly deploying Airbag may forcefully contact the 19  SAFETY occupant causing serious or fatal in- juries. + Do not allow the front passenger to place their feet or legs on the dash- board. A\ WARNING Passenger Airbag (PAB) Switch 20 Always use seat belts and CRS — during every trip and at all times. Even with airbags, you can be seri- ously injured or killed in a collision if you are not wearing seat belt prop- erly or not wearing seat belt when airbag inflates. You and your passengers should never sit or lean unnecessarily close to the Airbags. Move your seat as far back as pos- sible from front Airbags, while still maintaining control of the vehicle. All occupants should sit upright with the

Airbags, while still maintaining control of the vehicle. All occupants should sit upright with the seatback in an upright position, centred on the seat cushion with their seat belt on, legs comfortably extended and their feet on the floor until the vehicle is parked. Passenger airbag switch is used to acti- vate and de-activate the passenger airbag in the vehicle. The switch is located on the left side of the dashboard and can be accessed once the co-driver side door is opened. ® =i PASSENGER AlRBAG PAB Switch ON: When an adult is seated in the front passenger seat, ensure that PAB switch is turned to ‘ON’ position. This will ensure that the passenger airbag is operational in the event of a collision. PAB Switch OFF: If rearward facing child seat needs to be installed on front passen- ger seat to carry the child then ensure PAB switch is turned OFF. This will ensure that the passenger airbag will remain de-acti- vated in the event of a collision. This switch can be operated by using

airbag will remain de-acti- vated in the event of a collision. This switch can be operated by using me- chanical key / Key with remote / Smart key as per vehicle variants. Refer “Keys” sec- tion in this Manual. Passenger Airbag (PAB) Indicator Passenger airbag indicator is provided to notify an occupant, whether passenger airbag is activated (ON) or deactivated (OFF) in vehicle. PAB indicator is located on roof near roof lamp.  PAB Indicator ON: When the PAB switch is turned to ‘ON’ position to activate the airbag, ‘ON symbol & text’ will illuminate in amber color. PAB Indicator OFF: When the PAB switch is turned to ‘OFF’ position to deactivate the airbag, ‘OFF symbol & text’ will illuminate in amber color. SAFETY Wrong Seating Positions  SAFETY 22 Never place your arm over the airbag as a deploying airbag can re- sult in serious arm fractures or other injuries. Do not allow the passengers to lean their heads or bodies onto doors or place objects between the doors and passengers when

to lean their heads or bodies onto doors or place objects between the doors and passengers when they are seated on seats equipped with side and/or curtain Airbags. Do not place or stick any item/s in the vehicle, except at designated lo cations (such as utility bins, cup/bot- tle holders, boot space etc). Loose items may act as a projectile during a collision and cause severe to fatal injuries. Please be aware that any unse- cured item in your vehicle, such as your pet, unsecured CRS or a lap- top, can become a potential hazard in the event of a collision or sudden stop, causing injuries to occupants in the vehicle. Coat hooks (if provided), must be used only for that purpose. Never hang other items on to those hooks. This could affect deployment of the Airbags, and may lead to severe to fatal injuries. Always contact your TATA MO- TORS EV Authorized Service Cen- tre if the vehicle is damaged, even if airbag has not inflated or if any part of an airbag module cover shows sign of

is damaged, even if airbag has not inflated or if any part of an airbag module cover shows sign of cracking or damage.  ZX WARNING AX WARNING If your SRS malfunctions, the Airbag may not inflate properly during a colli- sion thereby increasing risk of serious injury or death. If any of the following conditions occur, your SRS is malfunc- tioning: The SRS warning lamp does not turn ‘ON’ when the ignition switch is placed in the ‘ON’ position for few seconds. The SRS warning lamp stays ‘ON’ after illuminating. The SRS warning lamp comes ‘ON’/stays ‘ON’ while the vehicle is in motion. The SRS warning lamp blinks when the vehicle is running. We recommend the customer to imme- diately visit TATA MOTORS EV Author- ized Service Centre and get the SRS system inspected if any of the above conditions occur. Never make any modifications to your vehicle. The modifications car- ried out, but not limited to the vehi- cle frame, bumpers, front fenders, ride height, suspension, seat belts, interior

to the vehi- cle frame, bumpers, front fenders, ride height, suspension, seat belts, interior trims, steering wheel (espe- cially holders), are not acceptable. This will affect the intended perform- ance of SRS. Fitment of bull bars, seat covers on seats with airbags etc, is strictly pro- hibited. If you need to make any modifica- tions to accommodate any disability you may have, please contact your TATA MOTORS EV Authorised Service Centre for necessary guid- ance. Do not tamper with SRS in any way. This will lead to unexpected per- formance of system and may cause serious injury or death. SAFETY 23  SAFETY Airbag Warning Sticker On Front Pas- senger Sun Visor The Airbag Warning Symbol on sun visor reminds of the extreme hazards associ- ated with the use of a rearward-facing child restraint on front passenger seat dur- ing airbag deployment. It does not mean that a child cannot occupy front passenger seat and use seat belt. Please refer CRS section for recommended seating position for

passenger seat and use seat belt. Please refer CRS section for recommended seating position for children. 24 AX WARNING Never use a rearward facing child re- straint on a seat protected by an active Airbag in front of it, Death or serious in- jury to the child can occur. Airbags Deployment Conditions When front airbags should not deploy? Minor frontal collision: Seat belt (if worn) offers adequate occupant protection in low severity collisions. The airbags are trig- gered only when there is a collision severe enough to trigger the airbags. Deployment of frontal airbags is not beneficial in low severity collisions. Side collision: During a side collision, oc- cupants tend to move sideways. There- fore, deploying frontal airbags in such situations will not benefit the occupants. Side airbags and side curtain airbags (if equipped) are specifically designed to re- duce the injuries that can occur in side col- lision. Rear collision: During a rear collision, oc- cupants tend to move

can occur in side col- lision. Rear collision: During a rear collision, oc- cupants tend to move (rearwards) away from frontal airbags. Therefore, deploying frontal airbags in such situations will not protect the occupant. Head restraints and seat belts provide occupant protection dur- ing a rear collision. Rollovers collision: During a rollover col- lision, unbelted occupants may float inside the passenger compartment. This will in- crease the risk of injuries and may prove to be fatal. Wearing seat belts provide highly effective occupant protection during rollover collision. Front airbags, are not de- signed to deploy in a rollover as frontal airbags cannot offer any protection in rollover collision. When front airbags/side airbags/side curtain airbags (if equipped) deploy with minor or no visible vehicle dam- age? The airbags are triggered only when there is a collision severe enough to trigger the airbags. The extent of vehicle damage is not always the correct indicator for airbag

to trigger the airbags. The extent of vehicle damage is not always the correct indicator for airbag deployment. In some extreme/rare condi- tions; of rough road driving, running into a curb or hitting other fixed objects; the  airbags may deploy depending upon the severity of collision. In some of these con- ditions, damage to the vehicle may be minor or not be readily visible. When front airbags/side airbags/side curtain airbags (if equipped) may not deploy, even with exterior visible vehi- cle damage? The airbags are triggered only when there is a collision severe enough to trigger the airbags. The amount of visible vehicle damage is not always the correct indicator for airbag deployment. Some collisions can result in visible damage but with no airbag deployment, because the airbags would not have been needed or would not have provided protection even if they had deployed. Seat belts, if worn, offer ade- quate occupant protection in such cases. Children On Board A\ WARNING * Do not

if worn, offer ade- quate occupant protection in such cases. Children On Board A\ WARNING * Do not leave unattended children in your vehicle. ¢ During reversing and parking, en- sure that your children are far away from the vehicle. AX WARNING + Donot put the safety seat belt under your child’s arm or behind its back. * Do not use pillows, books or towels to boost your child’s height. * Do not allow children to stand up or kneel on either the rear or the front seats. An unrestrained child could suffer serious or fatal injuries during a collision. * Do not install a booster seat or a booster cushion with a seat belt that is slack or twisted. SAFETY Child Restraint System (CRS) TATA MOTORS strongly recommends the use of Child Restraint Systems (CRS) for all children up to 36 Kg and to be placed at recommended positions only (Refer CRS Position table in this section). ISOFIX CRS can be installed in the vehicle using seat belts and/or ISOFIX with support leg (if equipped) or ISOFIX with

in the vehicle using seat belts and/or ISOFIX with support leg (if equipped) or ISOFIX with Top Tether (if equipped). These ISOFIX attachment points are located on rear outboard seat- ing locations which enables quick and safe child seat engagement. 25  R44 / ECE R129). The CRS are classified Top Tether Top Tether mounting anchorages are lo- cated at backside of rear outboard seats. The harness system of CRS holds the child in place, and in a collision, acts to keep the child positioned in the seat and reduce the risk of injuries. Keep children in a forward-facing or rear- ward facing CRS with a harness until they reach the size or age or weight limit rec- ommended by your CRS manufacturer. Selection and Installation of CRS Always select the CRS that complies with latest safety standards (AIS 072 / ECE according to the child’s size, height and weight. Select the appropriate CRS for your child. Ensure that the child fits prop- erly in the CRS and it is securely installed in the

your child. Ensure that the child fits prop- erly in the CRS and it is securely installed in the vehicle. While installing the child seats always ad- here to the directions in this Owner’s Man- ual as well as those provided by the child seat’s manufacturer. TATA MOTORS recommends Joie i- Spin Safe i-Size child seats for up to 18 Kg children. These seats are available at TATA MOTORS EV _ Authorised Service Centre. 26  @ NOTE TATA MOTORS recommends to keep the highlighted device in close condition while using Joie i-Spin Safe child seat in car Installing The Child Seat on Front Pas- senger Seats + Adjust the front passenger seat back up to its vertical position as per re- quirement, so that it can create ade- quate contact between passenger seat backrest & child seat. + Adjust the front passenger seat for- so that there could not be any contact between front passenger seat & child seat or child present behind it. * If required, adjust the front passenger seat height to its suitable

or child present behind it. * If required, adjust the front passenger seat height to its suitable position. * While installing child seat on front pas- senger seating position, adjust the buckle to its suitable position of rota- tion. « While installing forward facing child seat for 15 to 18kg children on front passenger seating position, adjust the front passenger seat to its rearmost position. Installing The Child Seat on Rear Pas- senger Seats * If required, adjust the front seat so that there could not be any contact be- tween front seat & child seat or child present behind front seat. « While installing child seats adjust the rear seat head restraints to its lower- most position or remove it if required & keep it at safe location to reinstall it SAFETY ward or backward as per requirement, that position. While installing child seats on rear out- board seating position, adjust their re- spective buckles to its required position of rotation. whenever adult passenger is sitting at 27

spective buckles to its required position of rotation. whenever adult passenger is sitting at 27  SAFETY Recommended CRS Position 28  Recommended CRS Position As Per The Vehicle Matrix The suitability of seat position for carriage of children and recommended category of CRS is shown in the table as per the child group. The child’s life is at risk in a collision if the CRS is not properly secured in the vehicle. Be sure to secure the child in the restraint system according to the manufacturer's instructions A\ WARNING Do not use an infant carrier or a child safety seat that “hooks” over a seat- back, it will not provide adequate pro- tection in a collision. SAFETY Recommended CRS Positions (CRS Fastened With A Safety Belt) Front Passen- Front Pas- Mass . . Rear Out- Rear Out- Rear Group Group SerwithiP SE ei engerwith board LH board RH Centre OFF PAB ON o | Upto 10 U x U U Xx kg o+ | Upto 18 U x U U x kg 9 to 18 U | kg UF UF U U Xx yw | 18 t026 UF UF U U x kg iy | 22 10.36 UF UF U U x

18 U x U U x kg 9 to 18 U | kg UF UF U U Xx yw | 18 t026 UF UF U U x kg iy | 22 10.36 UF UF U U x kg X: Seat Position not suitable for children in this mass group. U: Suitable for “universal” category restraints approved for use in this mass group. UF: Suitable for forward facing “universal” category restraints approved for use in this mass group. 29  SAFETY A\ CAUTION ACRS in a closed vehicle can become very hot. To prevent burns, check the seating surface and buckles before placing your child in CRS. Front Rear BET Grou Mass Category Of Passen- Outboard Out- Rear AX WARNING p Group Child Seat eer LH* board Centre + Do not modify CRS in any way. Recommended CRS Positions (CRS That Can Be Used With ISOFIX Sys- tem) Up to 10 kg E x x 0+ | Upto 13 kg C,D,E x IL IL x Z\ CAUTION L IL I 9 to 18 ki D, C, B, B1,A xX x * Do not install a booster seat or a ° q IUF IUF booster cushion with only the lap ll 15 to 25 kg x IL IL x strap of the seat belt or a seat belt that is slack or twisted. Il_|

lap ll 15 to 25 kg x IL IL x strap of the seat belt or a seat belt that is slack or twisted. Il_| 22 to 36 kg x IL IL x + Do not leave any toys or other ob- L: The seat is suitable for the ISOFIX child seats with “Semi-Universal” approval. jects loose in the CRS or on the seat while the vehicle is in motion. UF: The seat is suitable for forward facing child seats and is permitted for use in this weight category. X: The seat is not equipped for the ISOFIX system. *Rear outboard seating positions are suitable for ISO/R3, Class C CRS.  After a collision, we recommend to get seat belts, seats, ISOFIX and top-tether anchorages (as may be applicable) inves- tigated at TATA MOTORS EV Authorized Service Centre. Each CRS should be used for one child only. Passenger airbag can be turned OFF manually through switch provided on side face of the dashboard at front passenger side. Visual signal of passenger airbag ON or OFF is indicated on the roof console. When passenger airbag is ON, a rearward

airbag ON or OFF is indicated on the roof console. When passenger airbag is ON, a rearward facing child seat shall not be installed on the front passenger seat. When passenger airbag is OFF, a forward or rearward facing child seat can be in- stalled on the front passenger seat. While installing a rearward facing child seat on the front passenger seat, passen- ger airbag must be OFF. Refer images in PAB Switch section. WARNING If the airbag SRS warning indicator in the instrument cluster illuminates con- tinuously, it means that there is mal- function in the system. Remove the CRS from front passenger seat and contact your TATA MOTORS EV Au- thorized Service Centre. SAFETY 31  SAFETY Child Lock @ NOTE Lift the lock lever upward to deactivate the childproof lock when not required. Child lock are provided on both rear doors. It is used for safety of a child. Child safety lever to be used for safety of child for preventing them to open rear door while seating in passenger seat to avoid

for safety of child for preventing them to open rear door while seating in passenger seat to avoid accident while vehicle is moving. Both the rear doors of the vehicle are pro- vided with a child proof lock. Push the lock lever (located on vertical face of the door) downward before closing the door. The door which has been locked by activating the child lock cannot be opened from in- side. It can be opened only from the out- side. 32  ANTI-LOCK BRAKING SYSTEM (ABS) ABS regulates brake pressure in such a way that the wheels do not lock when you brake. This allows you to con- tinue steering the vehicle when braking. The ABS warning lamp in the instrument cluster lights up when the ignition is switched on. It goes off after a few sec- onds if the system is healthy. ZX WARNING + If ABS is faulty, the wheels could lock when braking. The steer ability and braking characteristics may be severely impaired. There is an in- creased danger of skidding and ac- cidents. ¢ Drive carefully. Visit to

impaired. There is an in- creased danger of skidding and ac- cidents. ¢ Drive carefully. Visit to TATA MO- TORS EV Authorised Service Cen- tre as soon as possible & rectify the issue with experts help. 1. While Braking * IfABS intervenes: continue to de-press the brake pedal vigorously until the braking situation is over. * To make a full brake application: Press the brake pedal with full force. If ABS intervenes when braking, you will feel a pulsing in the brake pedal. The pul- sating brake pedal can be an indication of hazardous road conditions, and functions as a reminder to take extra care while driv- ing. A\ WARNING * The stopping distance required for vehicles with ABS may be slightly more than conventional brake sys- tem but ABS will still offer the ad- vantage of helping you maintain directional control. ¢ However, remember that ABS will not compensate for bad road or weather conditions or poor driver judgment. Drive within safety mar- gins taking into consideration into

conditions or poor driver judgment. Drive within safety mar- gins taking into consideration into SAFETY consideration prevailing weather and traffic conditions. 2. Electronic Brake Force Distribution (EBD) EBD monitors and con- trols the brake pressure on the rear wheels to improve driving stability while braking. EBD provides optimal braking pressure distribution between front and rear wheels to optimize braking distance and to ensure vehicle stability by means of lowering braking pressure at rear wheels. AX WARNING +« If EBD is malfunctions, the rear wheels can lock under full braking. This increases the risk of skidding and accidents. * You should therefore adapt your driving style to the different handling characteristics. Have the brake sys- tem checked immediately at a TATA MOTORS EV Authorized Service 33  SAFETY Centre as soon as possible. * Drive carefully. Visit to TATA MO- TORS EV Authorized Service Cen- tre as soon as possible & rectify the issue with experts help. 3.

TORS EV Authorized Service Cen- tre as soon as possible & rectify the issue with experts help. 3. Electronic Stability Program (ESP) ESP monitors driving stability and traction. If ESP detects that the ve- hicle is deviating from the direction desired by the driver, one or more wheels are getting braked to stabi- lize the vehicle. The vehicle output is also modified to keep the vehicle on the de- sired course within physical limits. ESP as- sists the driver when pulling away on wet or slippery roads. ESP can also stabilize the vehicle during braking and accelera- tion. ESP warning lamp in the instrument cluster lights up when the ignition is switched on. It goes off after 2-3 seconds if system is healthy. A. Cornering Stability Control (CSC) Corner stability Control supports / stabi- 34 lizes vehicle during partial braking on curves by reducing pressure at required inner wheel of the vehicle. This helps to reduce probability of vehicle over steering during cornering. B. Off Road ABS

This helps to reduce probability of vehicle over steering during cornering. B. Off Road ABS Based on wheel speed information off road ABS helps to avoid wheel lock on un- even surfaces like loose gravel, pot holes by reducing the stopping distance com- pared to standard ABS. C. Electronic Traction Control (ETC) The Electronic Traction Control system function (ETC) is designed as a slip control system to prevent the driven wheels of a vehicle from excessive wheel slip. D. Roll Over Mitigation (ROM) The main feature of the Roll over Mitiga- tion function is the detection of a rollover critical situation and to prevent the vehicle rollover. This is done by active brake inter- ventions on selected wheels, thereby re- ducing the forces that cause a roll-over situation. E. Brake Disc Wiping (BDW) Water on the brake disc leads to a delay in brake response time. The purpose of the function Brake Disc wiping is to re- move the moisture when driving in wet conditions automatically & this will

Disc wiping is to re- move the moisture when driving in wet conditions automatically & this will help to get quick response form Brake and have a better deceleration. F. Electronic Brake Pre-fill (EBP) The Electronic Brake Prefill (EBP) function reduces the air gap of the brake pad and the brake disc. The function is triggered after a sudden release of the accelerator pedal due to an unexpected emergency brake situation. By actively pre-filling the brake-system the brake response time is reduced and results in a shorter stopping distance. G. Hydraulic Brake Assist (HBA) In a dangerous emergency situation, most of the drivers don’t utilise the full available performance of the brake system, as they may apply brake too soft due to Panic. The HBA function detects the critical situation and builds up additional brake pressure to reduce the braking distance.  H. Hydraulic Fading Compensation (HFC) In dangerous fading situations most driv- ers operate the brake pedal with a small or regular

(HFC) In dangerous fading situations most driv- ers operate the brake pedal with a small or regular braking force and they never reach to the maximum possible vehicle de- celeration. The HFC function improve the stopping distance by eliminating required pressure build-up lag by the driver. J. Dynamic Wheel Torque By Brake (DWT-B) The main goal of the function is to improve the agility of a vehicle and to enable a more direct steering. This is mainly achieved by braking interventions at the inner wheels during turning. DWT-B re- duces understeer tendency of the car and a higher curve speed can be achieved. K. Hill Hold Control (HHC) Hill Hold Control is a comfort function. The main intend is to prevent the vehicle from rolling backwards while driving off up-hill on an inclined surface. L. Panic Brake Alert (PBA) Panic brake alert warns the surrounding vehicles when an emergency or heavy braking takes place. The function will trig- ger Hazard lamps automatically, which will provide an

braking takes place. The function will trig- ger Hazard lamps automatically, which will provide an immediate warning to vehicles directly behind and nearby. With PBA, sur- rounding drivers and vehicles have more time to respond against slowdown vehi- cles. By providing additional warning to im- prove road safety, PBA reduces the amount and degree of injuries caused by rear end collisions that occur during heavy braking M. After Impact Braking (AIB) * In the event of primary collision there SAFETY are chances that vehicle can no longer be safely controlled. Accident analysis has shown that an active brake inter- vention would mitigate the effect of the subsequent collisions. After impact braking system is acti- vated automatically and brakes the car in a safe manner to mitigate secondary collision. Hazard & brake lights are triggered to intimate surrounding users of an emer- gency situation. Warning lights will continue flashing after vehicle comes to a standstill. The driver can

Warning lights will continue flashing after vehicle comes to a standstill. The driver can override the system by depressing the brake/acc pedal if there is a risk of being hit by following traffic. The basic assumption is that the brake system is intact after the primary im- pact. Mitigate impact/severity of subsequent collisions. 35  SAFETY GUIDELINE FOR PREVENTING FIRE AND ELECTRIC SHOCK + Make sure the charge station’s supply cable is positioned so it will not be stepped on, tripped over, or otherwise subjected to damage or stress. + There are no user serviceable parts in- side the charging gun. Contact TATA MOTORS EV Authorised Service Cen- tre should you experience any prob- lems with the charging gun. Do not attempt to repair or service the charge station or charging gun yourself — may result in injury. + Do not operate your charge station and gun if it or the supply cable is visibly damaged. Contact your Service Rep- resentative for service immediately. Refer to the ‘Emergency

damaged. Contact your Service Rep- resentative for service immediately. Refer to the ‘Emergency and Break- down’ section in this manual for infor- mation on the Service Representative in your area. + Donot place fingers inside the coupler on either end of the charging gun. * Do not allow children to operate this device. Adult supervision is mandatory 36 when children are in proximity to a charge station that is in use. « Not for use in commercial garages. + During normal operation, the charg- ing gun or couplers may feel warm. If either coupler or the charging gun feels hot during charging, unplug the gun and have a qualified electri- cian inspect the connections before you continue charging. * Charging station and domestic plug point must be approved/certified by a qualified electrician before using the charging gun. Coupler Recepta- cle has to have proper Grounding, electrical connection and has to contain a Residual-Current Circuit Device (RCD). * Charging should be done in

connection and has to contain a Residual-Current Circuit Device (RCD). * Charging should be done in Ignition OFF state. ZX WARNING « Unplug both couplers of your Portable Charging Gun before cleaning. * The charger generates electromag- netic waves that can seriously im- pact medical electric devices such as an implantable cardiac pace- maker in a person. When a person has an implant like the one men- tioned above, make sure to ask the medical team and the manufacturer whether charging your EV will im- pact the operation of the medical electric device implant. In such case, do not go near the vehicle when it is charging. + Ensure that the charging gun is al- ways stored in a safe place. Do no expose it to rain or wet conditions. Avoid pouring or dripping water or other liquids over it. If water pene- trates the electrical devices, the risk of electric shock increases. Ensure that all plugs and cables are free of  ZA\ CAUTION moisture before using the charging gun. Never connect the

plugs and cables are free of  ZA\ CAUTION moisture before using the charging gun. Never connect the charging gun to the mains with wet or moist hands or when the charging gun is wet. Do not use a damaged charging station, domestic plug point or charging port. Both charging gun couplers must fit tightly into recep- tacles that are in good condition. Using the charger with a worn or damaged port may cause burns or start a fire. Make sure that the device is always stored in a safe place. Do no ex- pose the device to rain or wet con- ditions. DO NOT use this product if the EV charge connector/cable is damaged. During charging the vehi- cle must not be exposed to rain, lightning and snow. SAFETY 37  SAFETY ANTI-THEFT LIZER/ PEPS Immobilizer system is designed to prevent vehicle theft by electronically disabling the vehicle ignition system. The vehicle can be started only with vehicle’s original Immobi- lizer ignition key which has an electronic identification programmed code. @ NOTE Use

Immobi- lizer ignition key which has an electronic identification programmed code. @ NOTE Use only Flip key, the other should be kept in a safe location. Note down “key Tag no.” information (and keep it safe) which is required while getting new/spare keys. Remember that it is not possible to prepare new/spare keys without the “key Tag number.” Take pre- caution about Flip key, as without Flip key vehicle cannot be started. DEVICE-IMMOBI- 38 Vehicle Condition Immobilizer Lamp Status Vehicle State Meaning / Function Of The State Vehicle Immobilized and awaiting electronic Ignition OFF Blinking Locked key Ignition ON OFF Unlocked Normal condition and ready to start the vehi- + Problem with key (Wrong key used to start vehicle) Ignition ON ON Locked [+ Problem with Immobilizer system. Con- tact a TATA MOTORS EV Authorised Service Centre. Ignition ON Blinking Unlocked Contact a TATA MOTORS EV Authorized Service Centre immediately.  HIGH VOLTAGE BATTERY SYSTEM Temperature Limits Battery

EV Authorized Service Centre immediately.  HIGH VOLTAGE BATTERY SYSTEM Temperature Limits Battery pack and vehicle can operate safely in limits from 0°C to 45°C. To control the battery temperature of the high voltage battery the air condi- tioner is used to cool down the battery and may switch on automatically with- out request from control panel which may generate noise from operation of the air conditioner compressor and cooling fan. HV Battery Life & Maintenance This Vehicle comes with a standard bat- tery warranty as mentioned in warranty section. Regular service of the vehicle and charging protocol to be followed to maxi- mize the battery life. Energy Information The vehicle battery pack has a maximum energy as specified in Technical Specifica- tion. Energy retention capacity deterio- rates over several cycles of usage and hence range deterioration happens over- time. This decrease in range during the end of life of battery is expected and is not con- sidered as a malfunction of

in range during the end of life of battery is expected and is not con- sidered as a malfunction of the battery pack. During these conditions, it is recom- mended to contact an authorized service center for inspection. Brake Energy Recovery System The vehicle features energy regeneration system, which regenerates expended en- ergy during coasting or braking during the drive. This system allows the battery to be recharged under the above mentioned conditions. Please note, the regeneration system does not fully recharge the battery, it only provides a chance to recover a portion of energy that would be lost during braking. When you release the accelerator or press the brake pedal, energy flows from wheels to high voltage battery, thereby charging it. BATTERY AND COMPONENT Regeneration is done by converting driv- ing force (kinetic energy) into electrical en- ergy that is stored in the Li-ion battery while the vehicle is decelerating or being driven downhill. This is called regenerative

battery while the vehicle is decelerating or being driven downhill. This is called regenerative braking Heavily Discharged High Voltage System In the case of a heavily discharged HV battery, there is a chance that the low volt- age battery is discharged as well. In this case, please contact your nearest TATA MOTORS EV Authorised Service Centre or further assistance. Do not try to jump start the vehicle or tow the vehicle without guidance from the service assistant. Heated High Voltage Battery In such a condition, the battery has safety logics to limit the performance or discon- nect by itself with prior warning. The vehi- cle should be stopped and allowed to cool down and TATA MOTORS EV Authorised Service Centre must be contacted for rec- tification. 39  BATTERY AND COMPONENT Long Storage of Vehicle With Re- spect To HV Battery Pack The HV battery undergoes discharge at a rate of approximately 3% over a period of 30 days in storage. Do not allow the vehi- cle to be discharged to 0% in

3% over a period of 30 days in storage. Do not allow the vehi- cle to be discharged to 0% in storage. It is recommended that the vehicle must be charged to a charge level in between 30% to 50% before leaving the vehicle for long time storage. After this time period the ve- hicle must be charged to 100% using Nor- mal Charging before use. High Voltage System Failure In the case of high voltage system failure, which may arise due to various reasons, contact TATA MOTORS EV Authorised Service Centre for further assistance. Predicting Energy Usage The vehicle battery energy usage is dis- played in the instrument cluster in the form of estimated range. This range is updated by the system algorithm, depending on the driving conditions. Displayed range in the instrument cluster is a tentative number based on drive route, 40 driving pattern and usage pattern history over the past drives. It is recommended keep a 20km buffer in estimated range be- fore planning the trip Disposal The disposal of

keep a 20km buffer in estimated range be- fore planning the trip Disposal The disposal of an HV Battery must be done with utmost care and will be carried out by TATA MOTORS EV Authorised Service Centre after sales service at the end of the battery life time or if the battery pack has passed its warranty period. + It is advised to contact TATA MO- TORS EV Authorised Service Cen- tre which shall guide & help in dismounting, handling and disposal through agencies who are certified by central/state pollution control board & obtain certificate of disposal from these agencies as proof of sus- tainable disposal. + If you decide not to use the recom- mended TATA MOTORS EV Autho- rised service center or TATA MOTORS EV Authorised Workshop to dispose of your high voltage bat- tery, the responsibility of the conse- quences of environmental pollution or accidents must be borne solely by you, the owner of the vehicle. Customers who wish to dispose of battery by themselves shall deal only with

owner of the vehicle. Customers who wish to dispose of battery by themselves shall deal only with registered entities (list of these is available on the CPCB/SPCB website) after duly verifying validity of necessary regis- tration documents. After disposal the EPR certificate has to be ob- tained by the customer from the en- tity. It is request that customer shall provide this certificate to nearest TATA MOTORS EV Authorised Service Centre which is to be kept for records & submitted to central pollution control board as proof of disposal according to policy guide- lines.  A\ WARNING EV battery contains materials like Lithium Iron, graphite, plastic & steel etc which can have impact on environment and are harmful if not handled/disposed of carefully. There is a risk of severe burns and electrical shock that may re- sult in serious injury while additionally posing a risk of environmental damage. TIPS TO CONSERVE BATTERY LIFE 1. Battery Charging It is advisable to charge the vehicle upto

TIPS TO CONSERVE BATTERY LIFE 1. Battery Charging It is advisable to charge the vehicle upto 100%. This en- sures accurate SoC calculation and con- sistent energy con- tent intake during charging. Charging to 100% also maintains battery health for longer time and ensures better range throughout the life cycle of the vehicle. {umm Battery Charging It is also advisable to slow or home charge the vehicle to 100% as much as possible. Slow Charging and full charging is the best way to charge your vehicle to maintain the health of the high voltage battery. After every 4 fast charging cycles, it is ad- visable to slow or home charge the vehicle to 100% SoC BATTERY AND COMPONENT 2. Cell Balancing or Equalization Cell balanc- ing or equal- fF ization and § SoC calibra- ion happens during charging, especially at higher SoC, > 90%. This causes charging to take longer time above 90%. Allow the vehicle ‘0 reach 100% SoC before terminating the charging session, as both cell balancing and SoC

vehicle ‘0 reach 100% SoC before terminating the charging session, as both cell balancing and SoC calibration are essential steps for any battery to perform optimally for a pro- longed time. 3. Extreme Temperatures Extreme — tempera- ures impact upon how well a battery can maintain its level of charge. Avoid charging the high voltage battery when Teneeanes it is hot and vehicle is driven for long distances especially in summers. Allow vehicle temperature to cool down before charging. It is always a  BATTERY AND COMPONENT better to charge EV when ambient temper- ature is low especially at night. 4. Vehicle Parking Avoid parking vehicle in direct sunlight for long duration. Try to park it under shade, tree etc. This helps in keeping battery tem- perature low resulting Vehicle Parking enhance battery life over the life cycle. 42  INSTRUCTIONS TO FOLLOW Instructions: It is recommended to charge the vehi- cle to 100% every time, whenever ve- hicle is being charged. Try to maximize the use

the vehi- cle to 100% every time, whenever ve- hicle is being charged. Try to maximize the use of slow / AC Charging however in case of use of fast charging, after a maximum of 4 continuous fast charging cycles/oppor- tunity charging cycles (Opportunity Charging — where end SoC is below 100% SoC) it is mandatory to use slow/AC Charging and charge the ve- hicle to 100% SoC. At least once a month or after every 4 fast /opportunity charging cycles whichever is earlier, one Slow/AC Charging till 100% SoC is must for SoC Calibration & Cell Balancing. Avoid charging vehicle under heavy rain / thunderstorms Avoid driving vehicle below 10% SoC. Make sure the charge station’s supply cable is positioned so it will not be stepped on, tripped over, or otherwise subjected to damage or stress. There are no user serviceable parts in- side the charging gun. Contact TATA MOTORS EV Authorised Service Cen- tre should you experience any prob- lems with the charging gun. Do not attempt to repair or

Cen- tre should you experience any prob- lems with the charging gun. Do not attempt to repair or service the charge station or charging gun yourself may result in injury. Do not operate your charge station and gun if it or the supply cable is visibly damaged. Contact your Service Rep- resentative for service immediately. Refer to the ‘Emergency and Break- down’ section in this manual for infor- mation on the Service Representative in your area. Do not place fingers inside the coupler on either end of the charging gun. Do not allow children to operate this device. Adult supervision is mandatory when children are in proximity to a charge station that is in use. Not for use in commercial garages. Slow Charging only happens in park brake engaged condition. So always CHARGING keep the park brake engaged during a charging session Change of vehicle state (Ignition OFF to Ignition ON or vice-versa) should be avoided while charging Post switch off the charger, provide min 5 seconds for

vice-versa) should be avoided while charging Post switch off the charger, provide min 5 seconds for touching and pulling out the gun. If the charging gun removed and rein- sertion required it could be done after at least 10 seconds of removal of the charging gun from Socket. Do not disengage/play around with the Park brake/hand brake while vehicle in fast charging condition. Overcurrent and leakage current pro- tections are given in the home charg- ing box and charging gun. The RCBO should always be in ON state during normal charging use-case and there should be no error (Red) LEDs on the charging gun. In case any tripping of RCBO is observed or error LEDs start blinking on the Charging gun, please contact TATA MOTORS EV Authorised Service Centre. 23  CHARGING * Home charging box comes with a key and lock. It is recommended to lock the box during overnight charge or when the charging box is not in use to avoid misuse of charging point. AX WARNING Unplug both couplers of your Portable

is not in use to avoid misuse of charging point. AX WARNING Unplug both couplers of your Portable Charging Gun before cleaning. @ NOTE During normal operation, the charging gun or couplers may feel warm. If either coupler or the charging gun feels hot during charging, unplug the gun and have a qualified electrician inspect the connections before you continue charg- ing. ZA\ CAUTION Do not use a damaged charging station, plug point or charging port. Using the charger with a worn or damaged port may result in unanticipated conse- quences. 44 AX WARNING The charger generates electromagnetic waves that can seriously impact med- ical electric devices such as an im- plantable cardiac pacemaker in a person. When a person has an implant like the one mentioned above, make sure to ask the medical team and the manufacturer whether charging your EV will impact the operation of the medical electric device implant. In such case, do not go near the vehicle when it is charg- ing. WARNING Ensure that

device implant. In such case, do not go near the vehicle when it is charg- ing. WARNING Ensure that the charging gun is always stored in a safe place. Do no expose it to rain or wet conditions. Avoid pouring or dripping water or other liquids over it. If water penetrates the electrical de- vices, the risk of electric shock in- creases. Ensure that all plugs and cables are free of moisture before using the charging gun. Never connect the charging gun to the mains with wet or moist hands or when the charging gun is wet. Charging station and domestic plug point must be approved/certified by a qualified electrician before using the charging gun. Coupler Receptacle has to have proper Grounding, electrical connection and has to contain a Resid- ual-Current Circuit Device (RCD). ZA\ CAUTION Make sure that the device is always stored in a safe place. Do no expose the device to rain or wet conditions. DO NOT use this product if the EV charge connector/cable is damaged. During charging the

DO NOT use this product if the EV charge connector/cable is damaged. During charging the vehicle must not be exposed to rain, lightning and snow. @ NOTE Charging should be done in Ignition OFF state.  IMPORTANT TIPS Do’s and Don’ts Do not allow the vehicle to be dis- charged to 0% in storage. Long duration Parking + Avoid parking vehicle below 20% SoC continuously for two weeks (<14 days) « Ideal condition to park vehicle for longer duration (> 14 days) is with 40% to 60% SoC (Disconnect the Aux battery — Ve terminal for longer duration parking) + After the resting period the vehicle must be charged to 100% using Slow/AC Charging before use. During the resting period, the user may choose either of the following options to prevent discharge of low voltage battery. + Periodically (weekly once) user may switch on the remote Air con- ditioning for 20-30 mins. This wakes up both the high voltage and low voltage systems and prevents low voltage battery from getting discharged. + If

high voltage and low voltage systems and prevents low voltage battery from getting discharged. + If possible, user may choose to dis- connect the negative terminal of the low voltage battery. This results in complete vehicle sleep and min- imum loss of charge for both low voltage and high voltage batteries Do not direct high pressure washer fluid/ water jets (Pressure above 0.5 bar) at electrical devices and con- necter during washing. This is to pre- vent malfunction/failure of electrical system due to water ingress. No High pressure washing in motor compart- ment, Under-floor battery pack and CCS Charging port. Drive though calm water only and only if it is not deeper than 300mm and at this depth, the vehicle speed to be maintained at creep speed. If car gets completely or partially sub- merged in water, switch off the ignition, evacuate the car and call RSA (Road- side Assistance) at 18002098282 for assistance. CHARGING As EV service requires certain skillsets and trained manpower,

18002098282 for assistance. CHARGING As EV service requires certain skillsets and trained manpower, it is always rec- ommended to get the car serviced or repaired at only TATA MOTORS EV Authorised Service Centre. Always check the SoC level before start of journey & ensure car is ade- quately charged. You may check the SoC level on the mobile app also. Remote AC command not to be exe- cuted through mobile app while/during the charge initiation process. If AC is switched ON remotely using Zconnect, it is required to switch it off using the Zconnect app before unlock- ing the vehicle. If it is not followed, the vehicle requires two ignition ON cycle to move as it will not move in the first ignition ON cycle. 45  CHARGING TYPES OF CHARGING Charging Time In Soc Charge Gun Power Source Band Types Of Charging Component Specifi- *Charging out Charging cation Time In Hours Nominal Voltage: 230V AC 4 | Normal/AC RMS single Phase 50Hz 13.5 (Option 1) 40-100% Charging |* Power Rating: 3.3kWAC RMS

4 | Normal/AC RMS single Phase 50Hz 13.5 (Option 1) 40-100% Charging |* Power Rating: 3.3kWAC RMS | 9.4 (Option Il) ° TATA MOTORS + Rated Current 13A AC RMS eee * Nominal Voltage: 230 V AC. 9 AC Charg- RMS single Phase 50Hz 5.0 (Option 1) 40-100% ing (WMU) |* Power Rating: 7.2kW AC RMS | 3.6 (Option II) ° + Rated Current 32AAC RMS + Power Rating: 50kW Charging station voltage capability Fast/DC 3 . |should be greater than or equal 0.56 10-80% Charging |*. high voltage battery pack nominal voltage. *Under standard test condition. 46  1. Normal / AC Charging «In electricity grid, electric power is AC (alternating current) by nature. How- ever, electric power in battery is DC (Direct Current) by nature. Hence, to charge an electric car by AC grid, power has to be converted from AC to DC. And to convert AC power to DC power On-board Charger is used. This type of charging is called Normal charging/AC charging. * Normal charging is recommended for usual charging of the vehicle. This

charging/AC charging. * Normal charging is recommended for usual charging of the vehicle. This charging method is most suitable for parking spots where the car will stay parked for longer duration of time. Precautions For Normal Charging 1. Proper maintenance of earthling pit is must. Add water & add salts at regular intervals into the earth pits in order to maintain the value of earth resistance. Check annually the condition of the electrodes so as to add or replace electrodes. 2. The electrical socket used for EV charging and its associated wiring should be able to supply 15A dedi- cated load continuously. 3. Vehicle charging port must be free of dust, water or snow while connecting the charging gun; if not proper clean- ing method must be used to remove dust, water and ice. 4. Don’t try to pull off the charging gun during charging. 5. Don’t pull out the charging gun if it is in locked condition as excess force can break or damage the locking mecha- nism. Normal Charging Procedure

condition as excess force can break or damage the locking mecha- nism. Normal Charging Procedure 1. Engage the Parking Brake. (Charging won’t start if parking brake is not en- gaged). 2. Connect the plug to AC power socket. CHARGING TATA MOTORS necti ig Aspirations 3. DO NOT plug into a power strip. a7  CHARGING 4. Open the protective cap on Charging Gun. 5. Press the ‘Charging opening switch’ to open the charging inlet flap. 48 6. Open the protective cap on Charging Inlet. 7. 8. Before connecting the charging gun to vehicle charging socket, make sure the gun lock is released. CAUTION If the Gun Lock is not released please don’t insert the Charging Gun forcefully into the socket. It may damage the Charging Socket. Don’t use the electric connection with extension or power strip for the slow charging or AC charging of the vehicle, this will lead to heat up the cables and charging gun. Prolong charging IN such condition may lead to melting of wire and charging gun. If the actuator is

Prolong charging IN such condition may lead to melting of wire and charging gun. If the actuator is engaged and the gun is not getting inserted properly, contact TATA MOTORS EV Authorised service centre. Remove any dust on the Charging Gun and Charging Inlet. Connect the charging gun to vehicle AC Charging Inlet.  10. Switch on the AC supply 11.Charging Gun will be locked after switching on the AC supply. You will hear a “click” sound, when the gun is connected correctly. When vehicle is in Charging Mode, it will not go in Drive (D) or Reverse(R). 12. Normally the car starts automatically charging. If not, please refer ‘Trou- bleshooting Guide for Normal Charg- ing’ table. 13.Open the door and see instrument cluster for State of Charge, Time to CHARGING Charge and Gun connection status. 14. In case the park brake is not engaged or partially engaged the charging won't start and ‘Engage Park Brake to start charging’ message will be displayed on instrument cluster. Infotainment and cabin

Brake to start charging’ message will be displayed on instrument cluster. Infotainment and cabin cooling can be used during charging of the vehicle by putting the vehicle in Ignition. 15. To stop the charging, switch off the AC power supply. 16.The charging gun will be unlocked after switching off the AC supply and pressing charging gun unlock switch 17. Pull out the plug. 49  CHARGING @ NOTE In emergency charging shutdown con- ditions, Gun won't be unlocked. Contact TATA MOTORS EV Authorised Service Centre. In unforeseeable circumstances if the charging gun is stuck to the socket after charging is done, user has to contact the service personnel. No mechanical 18.Put on the protective caps on both override to remove the charging gun is Charging Gun and Vehicle Inlet. available for user. @ NOTE Once Normal charging is completed, 90 seconds of time gap is required before the vehicle can be started. After turning off the vehicle, wait for four seconds if you want to start the vehicle

be started. After turning off the vehicle, wait for four seconds if you want to start the vehicle again. 50  CHARGING Normal Charging Control Box Indica- tions: 1. Home s T. ‘AA MOTORS 2. Control Box g Aspirations ‘TATA MOTORS 3. Vehicle 4. Fault Blinking 51  CHARGING Working State Home Control Vehicle Fault Example Self-inspection | pink | — Blink Blink | Blink See Sec fe: Se: Self-inspection for system state aes ae aa “a @ No fault Off r ) r ) r Check for engagement of park Standby state brake On Off Off Blink & r ) r ) <e- Plug temperature is high i Off ees: @ No fault . og Charging state On On Blink Blink & & se: Se Plug temperature is high ae eas Off & & t ) r ) No fault Charging On On On stopped ‘i Blink & & t ) -e- Plug temperature is high “a 52  Troubleshooting Guide For Normal Charging Refer the below table if charging is not starting or i can be seen on the control box beside the respective LEDs. ani @alie- Indication CHARGING it stops abruptly. The below symbols of ‘House’,

respective LEDs. ani @alie- Indication CHARGING it stops abruptly. The below symbols of ‘House’, ‘Control Box’, ‘Vehicle’ and ‘Fault’ Recommended Action gory Jam Improper earth connection. Check the earth pit. Short circuit between PE and phase. Error in domestic supply side. “Stop aie 7 Interface fault cod 6 6 @ eink on on en Charging” in home AC voltage is either less than 190V or more than 250V. Error in domestic supply side. “Stop Charging” , ji Proper connection of plug and socket <<: @ @ -s: Blink Off Off | Blink | should be ensured. Also, check socket 4 : rating and use 15A socket sie a -e- Off Blink Off On cont box @ i @ e Contact TATA MOTORS EV Autho- i ‘ rised Service Centre @ -«: @ se: Off | Blink off | Blink 53  CHARGING Fault Cate- Control Indication Home Vehicle Recommended Action gory Box @oe@ess: @ Off Off Blink On . Go to nearest TATA MOTORS EV Au- Vehicle box ; ‘i thorised Service Centre @@ -«: «: off off Blink | Blink ws "Ss -Blink 54  2. AC Charging (Wall Mount

Service Centre @@ -«: «: off off Blink | Blink ws "Ss -Blink 54  2. AC Charging (Wall Mount Unit) This type of charging will help customer to improve the charging time for vehicle charging. AC (WMU) Procedure 1. Parking brake should be in engaged condition (Charging won't start if park- ing brake is not engaged). Press the ‘Charging opening switch’ to open the charging inlet flap. Open the protective cap on Charging Inlet (AC side). Remove the charging gun from the WMU. (WMU will be separately in- stalled at customer end) CHARGING 5. Open the protective cap on WMU Charging Gun. 55  CHARGING 6. Before connecting the WMU charging gun to vehicle charging socket, make sure the gun lock is released. If the actuator is engaged and the gun is not getting inserted properly, contact TATA MOTORS EV Authorised Service Centre. Remove any dust on the Charging Gun and Charging Inlet. Connect the WMU charging gun to vehicle AC WMU Charging Inlet. 10. Charging gun will be locked automati- cally. You

charging gun to vehicle AC WMU Charging Inlet. 10. Charging gun will be locked automati- cally. You will hear a “click” sound, when the gun is connected correctly. 9. Scan the RFID provided, on the WMU to start charging. 56 11.Normally the car starts automatically charging. If not, please refer ‘Trou- bleshooting Guide in WMU’s owners’ manual. 12.Open the door and see instrument cluster for State of Charge, Time to Charge and Gun connection status. 13. To stop the charging, scan the RFID on WMU. 14.The charging gun will be unlocked after pressing the fascia switch on the dashboard panel. Pull out the gun. 15.Put on the protective caps on both Charging Gun and Vehicle Inlet. Place he Charging gun back and close the charging inlet flap. 3. Fast / DC Charging Fast charging of electric vehicle is achieved by using Fast/DC charging stations; they convert the AC power rom the grid to DC power and can di- rectly charge the HV battery pack thus bypassing the On-Board Charger. Fast charging

and can di- rectly charge the HV battery pack thus bypassing the On-Board Charger. Fast charging can be done wherever Fast/DC charging station is available. User can charge at high speeds at public charging stations. @ NOTE Battery performance and durability can deteriorate if the fast charger is used constantly. Use of Fast Charging should be minimized in order to help prolong high voltage battery life.  @ NOTE After a maximum of four fast charging cycles, the battery pack you must use Normal charging to 100% State of Charge for the optimum performance of the high voltage battery pack. Electric vehicle can be fast charged using any fast charging station or equipment compliant to Combined Charging System standard having Type 2 connector (CCS Type 2). @ NOTE Depending on the condition and dura- bility of the high voltage battery, charger specifications, charger rating, and am- bient temperature, the time required for charging the high voltage battery may vary. Fast Charging Procedure

the time required for charging the high voltage battery may vary. Fast Charging Procedure 1. Engage the Parking brake. (Charging won't start if Parking brake is not en- gaged). 2. Pull out the Charging Gun from DC/Fast Charging Station. 3. Open the protective cap on Charging Gun. 4. Pull the ‘Charging-inlet Flap Open Lever’ to open the charging door. Open the charger-inlet flap. on Before connecting the charging gun to vehicle charging socket, make sure the gun lock is released. A\ CAUTION If the Gun Lock is not released please don’t insert the Charging Gun forcefully 7. 1 1 CHARGING into the socket. It may damage the Charging Socket. Remove any dust on the Charging Gun and Charging Inlet. Connect the charging gun to vehicle Charging Inlet. Switch on the DC charging station sup- ply. 0.Charging Gun will be locked after switching on the DC charging station. 1.You hear a “click”, when the Gun is connected correctly, Click sound is be- 57  CHARGING cause of Gun locking after supply is

Gun is connected correctly, Click sound is be- 57  CHARGING cause of Gun locking after supply is switched on. 12. Normally the car starts automatically charging. If not, please refer Charging Gun’s Fault Indication & Indication Pri- ority Table on the charging station. @ NOTE When vehicle is in Charging Mode, it will not go in Drive (D) or Reverse (R). 13. To know the State of Charge, Time to Charge and Gun connection status please see instrument cluster. This sta- 58 tus is displayed only when driver door is opened. 14. SoC can also be identified from front of vehicle on CPL. 15. In case the park brake is not engaged or partially engaged the charging won't start and ‘Engage Park Brake to start charging’ message will be displayed on instrument cluster. @ NOTE Infotainment and cabin cooling can be used during charging of the vehicle by putting the vehicle in Ignition. 16.To stop the charging, switch off DC charging station. 17. The charging gun will be unlocked 15 seconds after

charging, switch off DC charging station. 17. The charging gun will be unlocked 15 seconds after switching off the supply from DC charging station. For fast charging no fascia switch input is re- quired. It unlocks automatically. 18.Put on the protective caps on both Charging Gun and Vehicle Inlet. @ NOTE If you remove the charging gun from the vehicle and if you wish to reinsert the gun to recharge the vehicle, please wait for at least 10 seconds before charging gun is plugged again. In emergency charging shutdown con- ditions, Gun won't be unlocked. Contact TATA MOTORS EV Authorised Service Centre.  CHARGING DO’S AND DON’TS The charging gun provided for home charging has to be stored safely and securely in the trunk of the vehicle or has to be plugged on to the Home Charging Box in locked condition. The wall box charging unit is also used for slow or home charging. It comes with a key and lock. It is recommended to lock the home charging box when the vehicle is kept for overnight

and lock. It is recommended to lock the home charging box when the vehicle is kept for overnight charg- ing or when nobody is around while the vehicle is being slow charged. This en- sures that the charging unit along with the charging gun cannot be misused or stolen. Wet surfaces are good conductors of electricity. Though the vehicle is equipped with safety mechanisms to protect users, it is advisable to take a few precaution while plugging in for charging. Hence, before charging, en- sure that the power source socket, the charging gun and the charging port (CCS2) port in the vehicle are dry. Also ensure that you are standing on dry ground and your hands are dry as well while using the high voltage charging equipment. Usage of damaged cables, Power Source socket and vehicle side CCS2 port must be avoided as they may re- sult in electrical hazard and inconsis- tent charging experience. While plugging in for home charging, ensure power source is off. Subse- quently ensure charging gun

While plugging in for home charging, ensure power source is off. Subse- quently ensure charging gun is con- nected at both ends — One at power source and the other at vehicle’s CCS2 port. Then switch ON the power source switch to commence charging. Confirm that the vehicle is charging from the green charging tell tale displayed on the instrument cluster. The cluster re- mains ON to display charging status for 60 sec after the start of charging. If charging gun is removed before 100% charging and again needs charging upto 100%, it is advisable to wait for at least 10 seconds before reinserting the gun in the charging port. CHARGING Once charging is complete and gun is removed from the charging port, it is advisable to pause for 30 sec before switching on the car to start driving. When the vehicle is shuttoff after drive, it is advisable to pause for at least 10- 15 sec before charging. It allows the vehicle’s electrical system time to de- energize and stabilize before the charging

It allows the vehicle’s electrical system time to de- energize and stabilize before the charging commences. 59  60  KEYS A key is an electronic access and authori- zation system available as a standard fea- ture with your vehicle. Unlocking Principle The transponder in the ignition key ‘carries a Unique Identification Code (UID). The vehicle unlocks when the code on the key matches with the code on the Battery Management System (BMS). In case of PEPS variant, Immobilizer function is pro- vided by PEPS ECU. Loss of Keys If one of the keys is lost, Contact the TATA MOTORS EV Authorised Service Centre immediately. A\ WARNING * Do not turn ‘ON’ ignition switch by using key with any type of metal wound around its grip or in contact with it. This may be detected as ab- normal condition by immobilizer and prevent vehicle from starting. Do not leave the key in high temper- ature areas. The transponder in it will behave abnormally when reused. OPENING AND CLOSING 61  OPENING AND CLOSING TYPES

in it will behave abnormally when reused. OPENING AND CLOSING 61  OPENING AND CLOSING TYPES OF KEYS (if equipped) SN Name Flip Key Remote Key = Description . Unlocking all doors . Approach Light / follow me / Tail gate opening . Locking all doors . Key blade in / out button Smart Key (PEPS) BRON > Locking all doors Approach light / Follow me Tail gate opening Unlocking all doors 62  turn ‘ON’. This feature helps to find and PRESS Flip Key With Remote 1. Unlocking all doors 2. Approach Light / follow me / Tail gate opening 3. Locking all doors 4. Key blade in / out button 1. Unlocking All Doors To unlock all doors, press unlock push-but- ton (1) once. Unlocking will be confirmed by single flash of turn indicators. 2. Approach Light / Follow Me Press approach light button (2) once, low beam, position lamps and roof lamp will reach the parked vehicle or to reach home in dark/ cloudy condition after parking. To switch ‘OFF’ the approach lights, press and release the same button or it

after parking. To switch ‘OFF’ the approach lights, press and release the same button or it automat- ically turns ‘OFF’ after approx. 30 seconds. Tail Gate opening Electric tail gate opening can be done through long press (4 sec) approach light button (2) on remote key. 3. Locking All Doors To lock all doors, press lock push-button (3) once. Locking will be confirmed by two flashes of turn indicators. If lock button is pressed on the remote key with the driver door open, locking-unlock- ing takes place with audible warning sound. If any other door is open, the vehi- cle gets locked but indicators do not flash. 4. Key Blade In / Out Button Press button (4) to flip out the key blade. For folding, press the button (4) and fold the key blade inside. OPENING AND CLOSING Key Blade should not be folded without pressing the button. Also, it should not be forced in any direction apart from folding direction to avoid damage to Flip Mechanism. Manual Operation of Central Door Locking / Unlocking

direction to avoid damage to Flip Mechanism. Manual Operation of Central Door Locking / Unlocking All doors can be locked / unlocked operat- ing driver door using either key blade from outside or knob from inside. 63  OPENING AND CLOSING Flip Key Features Vehicle Search In vehicle locked condition if lock button on remote key is pressed the turn indicators of vehicle flashes 4 times. Automatic Activation Of Immobilizer If key is removed from ignition, the vehicle will be immobilized automatically even if you forget to lock the vehicle. Auto Locking / Unlocking Of Doors / Auto Relock Vehicle doors get automatically locked when all doors are closed and the vehicle speed crosses 15 kmph. When ignition key is taken out all the doors get automatically unlocked. Also, when unlocked with remote key and if no door is opened within 30 seconds, ve- hicle doors get automatically locked. Anti-grab / Anti-scan Coding The remote control set of this security sys- tem is protected against the use of

/ Anti-scan Coding The remote control set of this security sys- tem is protected against the use of devices called ‘scanners’ and ‘grabbers’ which can record and reproduce some types of re- 64 mote codes. Important + Don’t operate Unlock push-button of remote while in the vicinity of your ve- hicle, as it could lead to an uninten- tional unlocking your vehicle. + Don’t use discharged batteries in re- mote, as it could damage the remote. + For battery replacement procedure refer maintenance section. * Don’t remove the battery connection of the vehicle while the vehicle has been locked by remote. Force Panic ON Operation Force Panic ON operation When vehicle is in OFF condition, if we press lock but- ton and unlock button simultaneously, Force panic operation gets activated. In this case, turn indicators of vehicle start flashing and horn will blow automatically. Force Panic OFF operation. Force Panic OFF Operation By pressing any button of flip key, Force panic operation gets

operation. Force Panic OFF Operation By pressing any button of flip key, Force panic operation gets deactivated. Smart Key (PEPS)(if equipped) Keep the smart key with user to perform the passive access. It is used for locking, unlocking and starting the vehicle. 1. Locking all doors 2. Approach Light / Follow me 3. Tail gate opening 4. Unlocking all doors  1. Locking All Doors Press the lock button once (1) to lock all the doors of the vehicle. Successful lock will be indicated by two flashes of turn sig- nal indicators. If lock button is pressed on the key with the any door open, locking- unlocking takes place with audible warning indicators do not flash. 2. Approach Light / Follow me This feature helps to find and reach the parked vehicle. When you press approach light button (2) once, low beam, roof lamp and position lamps will turn ‘ON’. This fea- ure helps to find and reach the parked ve- hicle or to reach home in dark/ cloudy condition after parking. To switch ‘OFF’ he approach

ve- hicle or to reach home in dark/ cloudy condition after parking. To switch ‘OFF’ he approach lights, press and release he same button or it automatically turns OFF’ after certain time. 3. Tail Gate Opening Press the tail gate opening button once (3) to unlock the tailgate with in authentication range of Smart key i.e. 1 io 1.5 meters. @ NOTE If smart key battery is low/drained or ve- hicle battery is low/drained, user can unlock and enter into vehicle by using mechanical key blade, which is present inside the smart key. 4. Unlocking All Doors Press the unlock button once (4) to unlock all the doors. Successful unlock will be indicated by one flashes of turn signal indicators. Emergency Key Blade IN / OUT YO Slide the knob (1) to release the key. Pull OPENING AND CLOSING the key blade (2) out. Smart Key Features Vehicle Search In vehicle locked condition, if lock button on smart key is pressed, the turn indica- tors of vehicle flashes 4 times. In vehicle locked condition, if lock

is pressed, the turn indica- tors of vehicle flashes 4 times. In vehicle locked condition, if lock button on smart key is pressed, the turn indicators of vehi- cle flashes 4 times. Auto Locking / Unlocking Of Doors / Auto Relock In PEPS variants, door will get unlocked when ignition is OFF by pressing Start Stop switch. In PEPS variants, door will get unlocked when ignition is OFF by pressing Start Stop switch. Anti-grab / Anti-scan Coding The remote control set of this security sys- tem is protected against the use of devices called ‘scanners’ and ‘grabbers’ which can record and reproduce some types of re- mote codes. Important Tips + Don’t operate Unlock button of remote in the vicinity of your vehicle, as it 65  OPENING AND CLOSING 66 could lead to an unintentional unlock- ing your vehicle. For battery, replacement procedure refer ‘MAINTENANCE’ section. Do not remove the battery connection of the vehicle while the vehicle has been locked by remote. Smart Key Precautions 1. If smart

of the vehicle while the vehicle has been locked by remote. Smart Key Precautions 1. If smart key is close to radio transmitter such as radio station or an airport which can interfere with normal opera- tion of the transmitter. 2. If smart key is near a mobile two way radio system or a cellular phone, then it will not work properly. 3. If another vehicle’s smart key is being operated close to your vehicle, signal will fluctuate. @ NOTE Keep smart key away from electromag- netic materials that blocks electromag- netic waves to the key surface. Force Panic ON Operation When vehicle is in OFF condition, if we press lock button and unlock button simul- taneously, Force panic operation gets ac- tivated. In this case, turn indicators of vehicle start flashing and horn will blow au- tomatically. When vehicle is in OFF condi- tion, if we press lock button and unlock button simultaneously, Force panic opera- tion gets activated. In this case, turn indi- cators of vehicle start flashing and

panic opera- tion gets activated. In this case, turn indi- cators of vehicle start flashing and horn will blow automatically. Force Panic OFF Operation By pressing any button of smart key, Force panic operation gets deactivated.  DOORS Option 1- Door Locking / Unlocking With Key From Outside Driver door can be locked or unlocked from outside using the key blade. Insert the key and turn it clockwise to lock and anticlockwise to unlock the door. Door Locking / Unlocking Using Door Handle Switch (DHS) To lock/unlock all the doors without oper- ating smart key button/ key blade. Press the door handle switch (DHS) provided on the driver door to lock/unlock all the four doors except Tail gate. + Authentication range for smart key shall be 1 to 1.5 meters from outside the respective door or tail gate. OPENING AND CLOSING + Passive entry only works during ig- nition off. Horn Honking When Door Locking Using Door Handle Switch (DHS) If vehicle is in unlock condition and smart key is not

Door Locking Using Door Handle Switch (DHS) If vehicle is in unlock condition and smart key is not available, (i.e. Smart Key is present away from authentication range) and if you try to lock the vehicle through door handle switch then vehicle horn honking gets activated for 9 sec. If vehicle is in unlock condition and Smart key is present inside the vehicle. If you try to press the door handle switch then vehi- cle horn honking gets activated for 9 sec. 67  OPENING AND CLOSING Locking / Unlocking The Doors From Inside All doors can be opened from inside by pressing knob on driver door and inde- pendently on other doors. 68 Pull the door opening knob (1) and then opening lever (2). There is a single pull override feature on driver door. All door can be unlocked by inner handle without operating lock knob of inner handle. Rear Door Opening Door opening handle is provided on the side of the window. To open the door, press the lever provided inside the handle and pull. WINDOWS Power

of the window. To open the door, press the lever provided inside the handle and pull. WINDOWS Power Windows Window glasses 1-2-3-4 on all four doors can be operated by switches provided on the main control panel located on the dri- ver’s arm rest. They work only when the key is in the ‘IGN ON’ position. Power windows can be operated for 30 seconds in ‘IGN OFF’ and ‘KEY OUT’ positions, provided the doors are closed.  Express Down Window glass can be opened by a single long press of the switch (1). Express down feature is provided for the driver’s door only. Inhibit Switch When switch (5) is pressed, amber light turns ‘OFF’. The individual switches pro- vided on other doors are not functional. It can be only operated by driver side switch. As the switch is depressed amber light turns ON and individual switches became functional. AX WARNING + If children operate the windows they could get trapped, particularly if they are left unsupervised. There is also a risk of injury. * Activate the

trapped, particularly if they are left unsupervised. There is also a risk of injury. * Activate the window inhibit feature when children are travelling. When leaving the vehicle, always take the key with you and lock the vehicle. Never leave children unsupervised in the vehicle. OPENING AND CLOSING Individual Switches Individual switch has been provided on all doors. To close the glass pull the switch in up- ward direction. To open the glass press the switch in downward direction. 69  OPENING AND CLOSING BONNET AND CHARGING FLAP Bonnet Opening 1. Make sure that the vehicle is in neutral and the parking brake is engaged. 2. Pull the bonnet release lever. The bon- net will pop up slightly. 3. Raise the bonnet slightly and with your finger slide the secondary lock lever. Make sure that the wiper arms are not raised before you lift up the bonnet to avoid damaging the wiper arms and the bonnet. 4. Lift the bonnet up. Pull the bonnet stay rod from its clip and insert the free end into the

4. Lift the bonnet up. Pull the bonnet stay rod from its clip and insert the free end into the slot provided on frame. Insert the stay rod into the hole se- curely. If the rod drops off, your body 70 Bonnet Closing 1. To close the bonnet, hold the bonnet by one hand, disengage the stay rod and clamp it back properly. 2. Lower the bonnet close to the bumper, then let it drop down. WARNING Ensure that the bonnet is properly locked before driving or it can fly up un- expectedly during driving.  OPENING AND CLOSING Battery Charging Flap Opening Emergency Charging flap opening In case of electrical malfunction, you can unlock the opening flap from inside of bon- net as per procedure given below 1. Open the bonnet. 2. Then pull the cable of charging cover, as shown below. For Opening 1. Make sure that the vehicle is in neutral and the parking brake is engaged. 2. To release the charging flap, press the switch located on fascia switch. The cover will pop up slightly. 3. Move the cover at

press the switch located on fascia switch. The cover will pop up slightly. 3. Move the cover at your left. 3. Move the cover at your left and open 4. For opening, pull the charging cap. the charging flap, pull the charging cap. 71  OPENING AND CLOSING If charge cap needs replacement, make sure that it is replaced by a genuine cap at TATA MOTORS EV Authorised Service Centre only. For closing push the charging cap, till it gets locked. 72  TAIL GATE OPENING Optio! Image OPENING AND CLOSING Operation Long press approach light button on remote, as un- Using Smart Key Option | latching sound is heard from tail gate, release the but- Using Flip Key ton. To close, slam the tail gate to latch and it gets locked Press a tail gate opening button on remote and re- Option II lease. To close, slam the tail gate to latch and it gets locked. Note: vehicle to be in authentication range. Option III Through Fascia switch To open the tail gate, press the switch located on fas- cia switch. Note: If

Through Fascia switch To open the tail gate, press the switch located on fas- cia switch. Note: If vehicle is in locked condition then tail gate un- latch via fascia switch will work only in ignition ON con- dition. Option IV Using DHS on tail gate DHS on tail gate is pressed with valid key in the au- thentication range, the tail gate gets unlatched. To close, slam the tail gate to latch then it gets locked. If the valid smart key is left inside the trunk then tail gate gets unlocked. 73  OPENING AND CLOSING @ NOTE * During closing Tail gate if doors are in locked condition and valid smart key is inside the trunk, then Tail be unlocked by pressing tailgate switch. * Tail gate once unlatch it will not get locked automatically with other doors. * For Tail gate unlatch remote operation, vehicle shall be in OFF mode. * If doors are in unlocked condition, Tail gate can be unlocked via Tailgate handle switch independent of smart key. Avoid keeping smart key inside the boot space area while

handle switch independent of smart key. Avoid keeping smart key inside the boot space area while closing Tailgate. 74  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER DIGITAL DISPLAY (4” INCH FLAT) OPTION | ODO Meter DTE EV Mode Gauge Charging Level SOC Gauge SESGSSSRPSHOS GSTS 7RP@wO0O RANGE BEBEBBkm 0 IEE Regeneration Mode Drive Mode Speedometer Regeneration Level Selection NOTE: All indicators shown may not be applicable to your vehicle 75  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER DIGITAL DISPLAY (4” INCH CURVE) OPTION II ODO Meter EV Mode Gauge DTE Charging Level Regeneration Level Selection PO BSSSSRAUSSSHRSSYSR @ 4 f py, BEGG Ekm 3 IEA > Ao* .. w= Regeneration Mode Drive Mode Speedometer SOC Gauge NOTE: All indicators shown may not be applicable to your vehicle  Gauge Name INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Note/Warning «At every key IN and Ignition ON, the speedometer Bar moves to MAX and return to ‘0’ position. + This is welcome strategy and self-check feature Speedometer The Speedometer Indicates the actual vehicle speed in km/h * In vehicle

feature Speedometer The Speedometer Indicates the actual vehicle speed in km/h * In vehicle running condition if the Speedometer is not showing the Vehicle speed, then take the vehicle to TATA MOTORS EV Authorised service center. Odometer Indicates distance traveled |* The odometer reading does not return to 0 when maximum Odometer : ; . P : by vehicle. value is reached, the display will freeze to maximum value. SoC (State of Charge) gauge indicates |* When battery SoC goes below 5%, first Bar in gauge will SoC Gauge the battery state of charge to user in start blinking. percentage * Do not drive the vehicle with low SoC. EV mode Gauge This function provides instanta- neous power consumption mode of vehicle during driving and displayed in the instrument cluster. During the IGN ON of the vehicle, EV mode gauge will starts sweep from REGEN mode to DRIVE mode and then back to the REGEN mode to indicate the welcome strategy behavior. For DRIVE mode, LED BARs will be ON as per the power

to indicate the welcome strategy behavior. For DRIVE mode, LED BARs will be ON as per the power consume When all functional modes are activated, then take the vehicle to TATA MOTORS EV Authorized service center. 77  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Gauge Name Information in ECO & SPORT drive by taking instantaneous power consumption input. For REGENERATION mode, LED BARs will be ON as per energy re- cuperation while driving by taking instantaneous power consumption input. Note/Warning (Distance To Empty) DTE Range indicates approximate dis- ance (km) that the vehicle can ravel with current battery charge. Range shall be indicated both in IGN ON & IGN OFF conditions. In IGN OFF when charger is con- nected and charging is happening hen Range value will display as long as screen is activated in the cluster. ‘RECHARGE’ shall be displayed which indicates that it’s the time to ‘ake your vehicle to the nearest charging station and the distance hat a vehicle can travel with cur- rent charge is 20 Kms. If

charging station and the distance hat a vehicle can travel with cur- rent charge is 20 Kms. If Range is displayed as ‘—-‘, take vehicle to TATA MO- TORS EV Authorised Service Centre station. The Range values may vary significantly based on driving conditions, driving habits, and condition of the vehicle. The Range value is an estimate of the available driving distance. Change of distance unit is not applicable. 78  Gauge Name Information INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Regeneration Level Se- lection This function provides Regenera- tion Level settings to user from Min- imum to Maximum in steps of Level 0, Level 1, Level 2and Level 3 of vehicle during driving and displayed in the instrument cluster. Note/Warning The “Maximum” Regen Level setting provides the maxi- mum amount of regenerative braking power & it recaptures the most energy and reduces wear & tear on the brakes. The “Minimum” Regen Level setting incorporates a re- duced regenerative braking force that recaptures less en- ergy but allows

incorporates a re- duced regenerative braking force that recaptures less en- ergy but allows the vehicle to coast further than in the “Maximum” Regen Level. 79  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER DRIVER INFORMATION SYSTEM (DIS) Driver Information SERVICE REMINDER System Image Description This indicates how many days/ kilometres are left until service is due. If service is overdue, it will display “O” km or “O” days anda spanner symbol will blink every time ignition is ON for a few sec- onds. Never reset the display between service intervals as it may give incorrect readings. The information is retained in the service interval display even after the vehicle battery is discon- nected. NOTE: This option is for indicative purpose only. Keep track of your odometer reading and follow the maintenance schedule. Spanner symbol will be continuously “ON” when service is over- due. OUTSIDE AMBIENT This displays outside ambient temperature in units of °C with the resolution of 1°C. (if equipped) TEMPERATURE Note:

ambient temperature in units of °C with the resolution of 1°C. (if equipped) TEMPERATURE Note: If display shows ‘- - ‘, take your car to TATA MOTORS EV Authorised Service Centre. This feature monitors the Door Input and warns Driver if any DOOR AJAR Door or trunk lid is open NOTE: If any other door is open roof lamp will be ‘ON’ provided that roof lamp switch is in ON position. 80  Driver Inform GEAR FOR DISPLAY System Image INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Description Current gear engaged by the transmission shall be displayed on DIS. The Gear mode displays as R, N, D Note: When there is a failure in the system, instead of showing R, N, D display for Gear shall be blank. If display for Gear is blank, then take your vehicle to TATA MOTORS EV Authorised Service Centre. SEAT BELT REMINDER The seatbelt warning indicator remains ON for 4 seconds, when ignition is turned ON. The warning lamp remains ON till all oc- cupied seats belts are buckled. If seatbelt remains unbuckled and vehicle speed goes

till all oc- cupied seats belts are buckled. If seatbelt remains unbuckled and vehicle speed goes beyond 15 km/ hr, Seat belt telltale will also start flashing along with audio alarm during Final Warning. Note: Buckle the seat belt to stop audible warning and telltale OFF. VEHICLE STATUS - READY This function displays that vehicle ready to move and in running TIME TO CHARGE This function indicates the time required to charge the battery to 100%. Time remaining to charge displayed on cluster in Hrs. & Mins Note - Time to charge screen comes only in charging ON and IGN OFF condition for 60 Sec and 5 Sec for every interrupt. 81  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Driver Information CHARGING LEVEL System Image This function indicates Charging Level in %. Note - /f display shows *- - ‘, then take your car to TATA MO- TORS EV Authorised Service Centre WELCOME text massage comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when Igni- WELCOME tion is change from OFF to ON. DOOR OPEN DOOR OPEN” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds

WELCOME tion is change from OFF to ON. DOOR OPEN DOOR OPEN” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when any Door is Open. PARK BRAKE ALERT text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds PARK BRAKE ALERT when Vehicle Speed is above 5 Kmph and Park Brake is en- gaged. FASTEN DRIVER FASTEN DRIVER SEAT BELT text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when Driver seat belt is not fasten and Vehicle speed is SEAT BELT above 15 Kmph. FASTEN CO- FASTEN CO-DRIVER SEAT BELT text warning comes ‘ON’ for DRIVER SEAT BELT 4 seconds when Co-Driver seat belt is not fasten and Vehicle speed is above 15 Kmph ACCESSORY ON text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when ACCESSORY ON Accessory Vehicle Power Mode is ON. IGNITION ON - IGNITION ON text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when Igni- tion Vehicle Power Mode is ON. STEER FAIL VISIT STEER FAIL VISIT SERV CENT text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 SERV CENT seconds when Steering System is Fail. 82  Driver Inform System Image Descrip' INSTRUMENT CLUSTER STEER FAIL VISIT STOP

System is Fail. 82  Driver Inform System Image Descrip' INSTRUMENT CLUSTER STEER FAIL VISIT STOP STEER FAIL VISIT SERV CENT text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when Steering System is Fail. DRIVE READY text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when Ve- DRIVE READY hicle is Ready to Drive. CHARGER CONNECTD CHARGER CONNECTD text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when Vehicle Charger is connected. AUX BATTERY LOW AUX BATTERY LOW text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when Auxiliary battery is low. CHARGE NOT FULL BAT SOC XX PERNT CHA\ ‘ON’ is no RGE NOT FULL BAT SoC XX PERNT text warning comes ior 4 seconds when Vehicle Charger is Removed & Battery Fully Charge. CHARGE FULL CHA\ Vehicle Charging is full. RGE FULL text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when PRK BRK SW FAULT VISIT SERV PRK BRK SW FAULT VISIT SERV CENT text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when Park Brake Switch is in Fault State. CENTRE MALFUNCTION VISIT IGN OFF TAKE KEY OUT text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 sec- SERV CENTRE onds

CENTRE MALFUNCTION VISIT IGN OFF TAKE KEY OUT text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 sec- SERV CENTRE onds when Ignition is OFF. 83  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Driver Information LOW SoC S MODE DE- ACTIVATED LOW SoC S MODE DEACTIVATED text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when S Drive Mode is selected with Vehicle Bat- tery Low Condition. STOP VEHICLE TO SHUTDOWN STOP VEHICLE TO SHUTDOWN text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when PEPS System in fault state. KEY BATT LOW (FOR PEPS ) KEY BATT LOW text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when UID key battery is low. KEY OUT OF RANGE (FOR PEPS ) KEY OUT OF RANGE text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when UID key is not inside the vehicle. PRESS BRAKE PRESS BRAKE text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when BRAKE is not pressed to crank the vehicle. SERVICE DUE SERVICE DUE text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when service is overdue. LOW BRAKE FLUID LOW BRAKE FLUID text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when brake fluid is low. OVER SPEED OVER SPEED text

FLUID text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when brake fluid is low. OVER SPEED OVER SPEED text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when dis- play speed crosses 120 Km/Hr. 84  Driver Inform TAKE A BREAK System Image INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Description TAKE A BREAK text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when driver drives continuously for prolonged duration. Note: TAKE A BREAK text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds again with specific duration if vehicle is not stopped and continu- ously driven. UNABLE TO RESUME (if equipped) UNABLE TO RESUME text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when cruise function is unable to resume/activate. CRUISE OVERRIDE (if equipped) CRUISE OVERRIDE text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when cruise function is override by user. HAPPY BIRTHDAY (if equipped) HAPPY BIRTHDAY Text comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds on owner’s birthday. MOTOR TEMP HIGH DRIVE SLOW MOTOR TEMP HIGH DRIVE SLOW text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when Motor Temperature is high. HV BATTERY LOW PLEASE

SLOW text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when Motor Temperature is high. HV BATTERY LOW PLEASE RECHARGE HV BATTERY LOW PLEASE RECHARGE text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when there is Low State of Charge. HV CRITICAL ALERT HV CRITICAL ALERT text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when there is critical alert in HV System. LIMITED PERFORM- ANCE LIMITED PERFORMANCE text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 sec- onds when Limited Performance Mode Activated 85  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Driver Information ENGAGE PARKBRAKE TO START CHRGING System Image ENGAGE PARKBRAKE TO START CHRGING text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when Vehicle Charger is connected. CRUISE ON CRUISE ON text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when Cruise function is ON by user. CRUISE OFF CRUISE OFF text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when Cruise function is OFF by user. CRUISE NOTDOABLE CRUISE NOTDOABLE text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when Cruise is not Doable CRUISE RESUMED CRUISE RESUMED text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4

for 4 seconds when Cruise is not Doable CRUISE RESUMED CRUISE RESUMED text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when Cruise is RESUMED. SLOW CHARGE WARNING It is recommended to slow charge vehicle to 100% SoC to en- sure consistent performance and better health of high voltage battery. Once this message appears in cluster, it is recom- mended that user slow charges vehicle’s high voltage battery to 100% SoC. CRITICAL BATTERY MALFUNCTION This message will appear in cluster along with audio warning to “Evacuate the vehicle”. In case there is a critical malfunction in high voltage battery which can lead to thermal damage, this message will appear in cluster. Customer is recommended to park vehicle in safe zone and evacuate to avoid injury. 86  Driver Information NIGHT TIME ILLUMINATION CONTROL System Image INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Description “ILLU SETTING” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds at the time of illumination setting Dashboard Illumination in Night time can be controlled in 5 steps as

time of illumination setting Dashboard Illumination in Night time can be controlled in 5 steps as per user’s convenience using SET and MODE button. Refer settings flow. iTMPS WARNING - FILL AIR RESET SYS- TEM “FILLAIR RESET SYSTEM” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 sec- onds when any tire pressure is Low in vehicle tires. iTMPS WARNING - TPMS ERROR VISIT SERV CENT “TPMS ERROR VISIT SERV CENT” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when there is any fault in iTPMS System. iTMPS WARNING - TO RESET TPMS HOLD SET BUTTON “TO RESET TPMS HOLD SET BUTTON” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when TPMS reset active request from ABS ECU REAR SEAT BELT INDICATOR If Rear Passenger (Right / Middle / Left) is present and its seat belt is not buckled and IGN is ON then Telltale will be ON as ini- tial warning with No audio chime. If Rear Passenger (Right / Middle / Left) seat belt remains un- buckled and vehicle speed goes above 15 km/ hr, Then Seat belt telltale will also start flashing along with

and vehicle speed goes above 15 km/ hr, Then Seat belt telltale will also start flashing along with audio alarm during 87  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Driver Information System Image Description Final Warning. Note: Buckle the Rear Passenger (Right / Middle / Left) seat belt to stop Audible warning and telltale OFF. i-TPMS Text “LO“ near to respective tyre and tyre symbol will blink for 4 Seconds if tyre pressure is low along with Text Message “FILL AIR RESET SYSTEM”. 88  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Driver Information System (DIS) Setting Option | TRIP A Reset TRIP A & AEC A Hh % SE km D0 & OAT If Service Reminder is present TRIP B Reset TRIP B & AEC B |«—_ UP switch short press» Down switch short press « OK switch Long press 89  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Driver Information System (DIS) Setting Op’ ce “ iat MBSB to Display P MBSB to ‘i Service B/=Bea) Display TRIP A Display ODO & Reminder OD0 & OAT ODO & Service Reminder TRIPA&AECA | MBSB to Display TRIP B &AECB TRIP B & AEC B 90  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER

& Service Reminder TRIPA&AECA | MBSB to Display TRIP B &AECB TRIP B & AEC B 90  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Illumination Setting Option | Driver Information settings For Illumination Setting 15.4km P* Park lamp ==ON ODO & OAT Park lamp =-ON Park lamp ON UP Button Down + Button — IL ++ IL + UP switch short press «Down switch short press « OK switch Long press 91  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Illumination And Clock Setting Option II Press SBLP fo change values around Press SBLP to change values around Press Set Digit to Button Log set time to set Hours Press BSP Bf Vehicle Speed =0 & Patk Lampis OFF Both HH ditt to Set Press SBLP to set Minute First digit ress MBSP 10 Enter Cleck setting Press SBLP to change values eround ress MASP ross SSP Button to Setting range ress SBP 0st Minute sched (ame) aaa ‘SBLP 1. During clock setting. if user does not give input Ki [UUMINATION | for 0 seconds clock setting wll atoraialy AMY Ele seve and exit with last valid value. ‘values around bi During clock setting, if

atoraialy AMY Ele seve and exit with last valid value. ‘values around bi During clock setting, if user made IGN cycle or Vehicle moving lock setting will automatically save and ext with last vals value 92  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Clock Setting Option | Park Lamp == OFF Park Lamp == OFF Back to Hour Digit Again Save and Back Previous sereen Note: 1. SBSP — Set Button Short Press 2. MBSP — Mode Button Short Press 3. SBLP — Set Button Long Press 93  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER DIGITAL DISPLAY (7” Inch)(If equipped) EV Mode Gauge Drive Mode OAT SOC Gauge Clock Speedometer A SW 23.5 a i ODO Meter Gear Indicator Regeneration Mode Drive Information Center DTE Regeneration Level Selection NOTE: All indicators shown may not be applicable to your vehicle 94  Gauge Name Inform The Speedometer Indicates the INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Note/warning At every key IN and Ignition ON, the speedometer Bar moves to MAX and return to ‘0’ position. Speedometer + This is welcome strategy and self-check feature actual vehicle

to ‘0’ position. Speedometer + This is welcome strategy and self-check feature actual vehicle speed in km/h ; ; a ; * In vehicle running condition if the Speedometer is not showing the Vehicle speed, then take the vehicle to TATA MOTORS EV Authorized service centre. Odometer Indicates distance traveled |* The odometer reading does not return to 0 when maximum Odometer : . . . by vehicle. value is reached, the display will freeze to maximum value. SoC (State of Charge) gauge indicates |* When battery SoC goes below 5%, first Bar in gauge will SoC Gauge the battery state of charge to user in start blinking. percentage Do not drive the vehicle with low SoC. EV mode Gauge This function provides instanta- neous power consumption mode of vehicle during driving and displayed in the instrument cluster. During the IGN ON of the vehicle, EV mode gauge will starts sweep from REGEN mode to DRIVE mode and then back to the REGEN mode to indicate the welcome strategy behavior. For DRIVE mode, LED

mode and then back to the REGEN mode to indicate the welcome strategy behavior. For DRIVE mode, LED BARs will be ON as per the power consume When all functional modes are activated, then take the vehicle to TATA MOTORS EV Authorized service centre. 95  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Gauge Name Information in ECO & SPORT drive by taking instantaneous power consumption input. For REGENERATION mode, LED BARs will be ON as per energy re- cuperation while driving by taking instantaneous power consumption input. Note/warning Regeneration Level Selection This function provides Regenera- tion Level settings to user from Min- imum to Maximum in steps of Level 0, Level 1, Level 2and Level 3 of vehicle during driving and displayed in the instrument cluster. The “Maximum” Regen Level setting provides the maxi- mum amount of regenerative braking power & it recaptures the most energy and reduces wear & tear on the brakes. The “Minimum” Regen Level setting incorporates a re- duced regenerative braking force

the brakes. The “Minimum” Regen Level setting incorporates a re- duced regenerative braking force that recaptures less en- ergy but allows the vehicle to coast farther than in the “Maximum” Regen Level. 96  DRIVER INFORMATION SYSTEM (DIS) Driver Information SERVICE REMINDER System Image Illumination Unit Service Reminder... INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Description User can select Service Reminder Screen using controls on steering wheel to navigate & by pressing Set Button in Settings Screen. Service reminder is a feature to alert the user for service action. When distance since last service meet the maximum distance criteria, a service screen will get activated for the user to indicate the service of the vehicle has to be done along with the telltale indication. User can reset the Service Reminder Symbol by right/left & SET but- tons on the steering wheel. OUTSIDE AMBIENT This displays outside ambient temperature in units of °C with the reso: lution of 1°C. (if equipped) TEMPERATURE Note: If

ambient temperature in units of °C with the reso: lution of 1°C. (if equipped) TEMPERATURE Note: If display shows ‘- - ‘, take your car to TATA MOTORS Author- ized Service Centre. This feature monitors the Door Input and warns Driver if any Door is DOOR AJAR Open NOTE: If any other door is open roof lamp will be ‘ON’ provided that roof lamp switch is in ON position. 97  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Driver Informati System Image Current gear engaged by the transmission shall be displayed on DIS. CURRENT GEAR Note: /f is displayed, it means ‘Fault’ condition. In such case, take INDICATION vehicle to authorized TATA MOTORS Authorized service Centre. The seatbelt warning indicator remains ON for 4 seconds, when igni- tion is turned ON. The warning lamp remains ON till all occupied seats belts are buckled. SEAT BELT If seatbelt remains unbuckled and vehicle speed goes beyond 15 REMINDER naeh then final audio warning will go more than 90 seconds ote: Once the seatbelts are fastened, the buzzer and

audio warning will go more than 90 seconds ote: Once the seatbelts are fastened, the buzzer and warning lamp turns OFF. Seatbelt reminder remains OFF when reverse gear is engaged. When any of the Tire Pressure drops significantly below Recom- LTPMS mended levels then I-TPMS Isolated / Non-lsolated system telltale comes ON with “Check all tire Pressure and Reset the TPMS system” Text Message. TPMS ERROR When there is fault in |-TPMS Isolated / Non-lsolated system the clus- VISIT SERV - . CENTRE ter will show the Text Warning. 98  Driver Information CHARGER NOT System Image INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Description This function displays the Charger Connected status information. When charger is not connected. CONNECTED When Charger is connected and not charging in IGN ON. When Charger is connected and charging ON in IGN ON. CHARGER CONNECTED When charger is connected in IGN OFF. 99  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Driver Informati System Image This indicate the energy flow from the battery to the front wheels

Driver Informati System Image This indicate the energy flow from the battery to the front wheels via electric motor or the flow to battery from high voltage components in case of regenerative braking. Animation = Forward (Battery to Motor) ENERGY FLOW ANIMATION AND ENERGY HISTOGRAM Animation = Reverse (Motor to Battery) The IVI data including media Meta data, Navigation data is shared IVIINEO ON IC from HU via CAN interface to be projected on IC. IVI Info will not be displayed, if Settings screen is requested. Displays “Average Energy consumption” for trip A or B since it was reset Resolution: 0.1 Wh/Km Average Energy Consumption shall Reset to 0 when respective Trip meter is reset. AVERAGE ENERGY ECONOMY FOR TRIP A AND TRIP B 100  iver Information System Image INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Description Average Energy Economy shall be displayed as ‘—.-‘for initial 0.5 km of respective trip. Once 0.5 km distance is covered, Average Energy Economy shall be displayed. Even after 0.5 km distance

0.5 km distance is covered, Average Energy Economy shall be displayed. Even after 0.5 km distance covered for particular trip, Average Energy economy is displayed as ‘—-‘take vehicle to TATA MOTORS Author- ized Service Centre. Note: + AEE value is estimate of Energy economy. It may vary significantly based upon driving conditions, driving habits and condition of vehi- cle. + Average Energy Consumption shall get Reset to 0 when Battery is removed and refitted. DISTANCE TO EMPTY DTE indicates approximate distance (km) that the vehicle can travel with current battery charge. DTE shall be indicated both in IGN ON & IGN OFF conditions. In IGN OFF when charger is connected and charging is happening then DTE value will display as long as screen is active in the cluster. ‘RECHARGE’ shall be displayed which indicates that it’s the time to take your vehicle to the nearest charging station and the distance that a vehicle can travel with current charge is 20 Kms. 101  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER er

the distance that a vehicle can travel with current charge is 20 Kms. 101  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER er Information INFOTAINMENT INFORMATION ON INSTRUMENT CLUSTER DISPLAY UNIT System Image The instrument cluster will display information like media, navigation and FM. SETTINGS SCREEN User can enter into setting screen by pressing select button while being in setting screen. Following screen gets displayed into setting screen: User can select Illumination Setting by Scroll down & pressing Set Button in Setting Screen provided park lamp ON. User can increase the illumination from (20% to 100%) in 5 steps by REMINDER RESET ILLUMINATION , SETTING using UP & SET Button. User can decrease the illumination from (100% to 20%) in 5 steps by using DOWN & SET Button. User can select Service Reminder Screen by Scroll down & pressing SERVICE Set Button in Setting Screen. User can reset (Yes / Cancel) the Service Reminder by UP / DOWN & SET Buttons. 102  Reset Service Reminder? Button Cancel INSTRUMENT

Service Reminder by UP / DOWN & SET Buttons. 102  Reset Service Reminder? Button Cancel INSTRUMENT CLUSTER In the Setting menu if there is no user input for 10 secs the previous screen shall be displayed. CLOCK Instrument Cluster equipped with digital clock which indicates current time in 12 / 24 hours mode. STATE OF CHARGE SoC (State of Charge) gauge indicates the battery state of charge to user in percentage. 103  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Driver Informati PRESS BRAKE PEDAL System Image Press Brake Pedal to Start Vehicle Before you start the vehicle, press the brake pedal and then press the start/stop button. SLOW CHARGE UP TO 100% Slow Charge up to 100% It is recommended to slow charge vehicle to 100% SOC to ensure consistent performance and better health of high voltage battery. Once this message appears in cluster, it is recommended that user slow charges vehicle’s high voltage battery to 100% SOC. CRITICAL BATTERY (THERMAL RUNAWAY) MALFUNCTION 104 Park Vehicle Safely and Evacuate

to 100% SOC. CRITICAL BATTERY (THERMAL RUNAWAY) MALFUNCTION 104 Park Vehicle Safely and Evacuate Immediately This message will appear in cluster along with audio warning to “Evacuate the vehicle”. In case there is a critical malfunction in high voltage battery which can lead to thermal damage, this message will appear in cluster. Customer is recommended to park vehicle in safe zone and evacuate to avoid injury.  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Driver Information System (DIS) Setting Operate the Up & down and Set Switch on steering wheel to see the Trip Info, Drive Assist, Vehicle Info, Notification, Navigation, Layout and Settings Window. Operate the Set Switch on steering wheel to reset TRIP A, AEE A, Average Speed A, Trip Time A (When TRIP A is displayed) and reset TRIP B, AFE B, Average Speed B and Trip Time B (When TRIP B is displayed). 105  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Trip Information -—— 1.1. TripA 300.0 9999.9 -—— 1.2. TripB 00:00 0.0 6 ——* 1.3. Go To Main Menu Press to go to main menu 106

300.0 9999.9 -—— 1.2. TripB 00:00 0.0 6 ——* 1.3. Go To Main Menu Press to go to main menu 106  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Vehicle Information 3.1. Date and Time ( l -) 3 Dec 2021 2. ) Vehicle info 3.2. Go To Main Menu to go to main menu 107  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Energy Analytics 108 Energy Analytics 4.1 Histogram 4.2 Energy flow 4.3 Go to Main Menu  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Notification -—— 5.1. Service Reminder Service due in 760 km [—— 5.2. Notification iQ Notifications 0) » Due in 345Kms or Notification 2 Notification 3 ——+ 5.3. Go To Main Menu to go to main menu 109  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Layout 6.1. Go To Main Menu Minimal View ——+ 6.2. Go To Main Menu to go to main menu 110  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Setting Screen -— 7.1. Illumination i+» 7.2. Clock i Format Set Time L. 7.3. TPMS Reset Reset TPMS? Yes Cancel 111  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER 112 -— 7.4. Favourite Menu }-> 7.5. Factory Reset Factory Re Cancel -—+ 7.6. Service Reminder Reset t Service Reminder? Button Cancel i—+ 7.7. About  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER

7.6. Service Reminder Reset t Service Reminder? Button Cancel i—+ 7.7. About  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER DIGITAL DISPLAY (10.25” Inch ) Power Meter Trip Info Gear Indication Speedometer DTE Clock OAT 11:30 pm READY 160 km/h ODO 123456 km HV Battery Gauge AEE ODO Meter Battery Indicator Drive Mode Warning & Indicator Energy Regeneration Gauge NOTE: All indicators shown may not be applicable to your vehicle 113  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Gauge Speedometer Information The Speedometer Indicates the actual vehicle speed in km/h Note/Warning At every key IN and Ignition ON, the speedome- ter Bar moves to MAX and return to ‘0’ position. This is welcome strategy and self-check feature Power Meter Power Meter indicates energy consumption rate when the vehicle is powered by electric force, when it is recovering energy and when regenera- tion is limited during accelerating or maintaining speed. At every key in and Ignition ON, tachometer moves to MAX and returns to ‘0’ position. This is a welcome strategy and

Ignition ON, tachometer moves to MAX and returns to ‘0’ position. This is a welcome strategy and a self-check fea- ture. Distance to empty may differ from the actual driving distance based on driving conditions, driving style and condition of vehicle. Odometer Odometer Indicates distance traveled by vehicle. The odometer reading does not return to 0 when maximum value is reached, the display will freeze to maximum value. HV Battery Gauge The HV Battery Gauge displays Charging Com- pleted as per Set Limit Bar Graph is used for display SoC %. The Gauge Indication shall change the Colour based on the SoC available 0-10% - Red Solid ON 11-100% - Blue; (All the values are config- urable) When the cluster detects Low battery level, It blinks last battery bar with 1Hz frequency and charge battery is symbol is continue ON state. 114  Gauge Information INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Note/Warning When there is 1 — 2 bars left, the vehicle speed is limited and then eventually vehicle will turn OFF. Charge

is 1 — 2 bars left, the vehicle speed is limited and then eventually vehicle will turn OFF. Charge the vehicle If there is any fault in the system, battery low warning symbol shall blink. Take your vehicle to the nearest TATA MOTORS EV Authorised Service Centre. When driving on highways, make sure the bat- tery is charged enough Average Energy Economy Display shows the Average Energy of consump- tion” at regular time interval in bar graph. Maintain AEE bar graph above 15 km/I to achieve battery economy Battery indicator The battery shows the Battery percentage at differ- ent level When low battery warning indicator on and pop up message is displayed, charge the vehicle. Energy Regeneration Gauge Energy recuperation simply means recovering the energy from braking. Regenerative Braking Sys- tem saves energy generated while slowing down or braking of the car. This energy is stored back in the battery for later use. There are 3 levels at which energy recovery is done. If there is any

in the battery for later use. There are 3 levels at which energy recovery is done. If there is any fault in the system, battery low warning symbol shall blink. Take your vehicle to the nearest TATA MOTORS EV Authorised Service Centre. Trip Meter info Trip Meter A Trip A Indicates distance traveled by vehicle since last reset within the range of 0 km to 9999.9 km with the resolution of 0.1 km. Trip Acan be RESET to 0 by pressing Set switch when display is ina TRIP A mode. Trip B can be RESET to 0 by pressing Set switch when display is ina TRIP B mode. 115  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Information Note/Warning Trip Meter B Trip B Indicates distance traveled by vehicle since last reset within the range of 0 km to 9999.9 km with the resolution of 0.1 km. State of Charge (SoC) Gauge For High Voltage Battery Provided in the instrument cluster as a telltale. It shows the charging status of the high voltage battery. Low charge or minimum position on the indicator indicates that there is not enough

voltage battery. Low charge or minimum position on the indicator indicates that there is not enough energy in the high voltage battery. Full charge or max position indicates that the HV battery is fully charged. + When driving on highways, make sure to check in advance if the HV battery is charged enough. + When the bar turns red on the high voltage charge indicator, the low charge warning lamp turns ON to alert you of the battery level. + At <25% SoC, Sports mode cannot be selected. Max speed can be attained. At <10% SoC, limp mode gets activated and speed limits are triggered. a) =) q = _) = sis ie i rs Action to be Taken When Charging Stops Abruptly * Check the reason for interruption of charging.(Refer ‘Troubleshooting guide for Normal Charging’ table). 116  Switch off the AC supply. INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Remove the charging gun from the charging inlet. Wait for 5 minutes. Restart the charging. (Refer charging procedure). Cleaning of Charging Inlet Covering the charging gun and

the charging. (Refer charging procedure). Cleaning of Charging Inlet Covering the charging gun and charging in Precautions to be Taken While Cleaning @ NOTE Keep the vehicle lid always closed let by dust cap will ensure protection from water and dust. the Charging Inlet When the lid is open ensure that dust caps are in closed position During normal charging, make sure that In case of any dust/mud/snow accumu with blowing air before charging. DC charging cap is closed ation in the charging port and also on CCS2 especially actuator area, it can be cleaned Allow the water to drain completely through drain holes. Allow the charging port to dry complete! iy. Water entering into the charging port will always be drained through the drain system. If water is stagnant in charging port area call TATA MOTORS EV Authorised service centre to rectify the issue. 117  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER DRIVER INFORMATION SYSTEM (DIS) Driver Information SERVICE REMINDER System Image 11:30pm P Vehicle Info Service

SYSTEM (DIS) Driver Information SERVICE REMINDER System Image 11:30pm P Vehicle Info Service Reminder Service due in 26 Days and 760 km Description This indicates how many days/kilometres are left until serv- ice is due. If service is overdue, it will display “O” km or “0” days and a spanner symbol will blink every time ignition is ON for a few seconds. Never reset the display between service intervals as it may give incorrect readings. The infor- mation is retained in the service interval display even after the vehicle battery is disconnected. NOTE: 1. This option is for indicative purpose only. Keep track of your odometer reading and follow the maintenance schedule. 2. Spanner symbol will be continuously “ON” when service is overdue. OUTSIDE AMBIENT TEMPERATURE Displays outside ambient temperature in °C. NOTE: The temperature sensor is in the front bumper of the vehicle, therefore the temperature reading can be af- fected by heat reflection from the road surface. This can cause an

temperature reading can be af- fected by heat reflection from the road surface. This can cause an incorrect temperature reading when speed is under low speeds or when stopped. If display shows ‘- - ‘, take your car to TATA MOTORS EV Authorised Service Centre. 118  iver Information DOOR AJAR (if equipped) System Image INSTRUMENT CLUSTER This feature monitors the Door Input and warns Driver if any Door is Open NOTE: If any other door is open roof lamp will be ‘ON’ pro- vided that roof lamp switch is in ON position. CURRENT GEAR INDICATION 11:30em DD Trip Info TripA 123.5 yco. 68,7 Current gear engaged by the transmission shall be dis- played on DIS. Note: /f is displayed, it means ‘Fault’ condition. In such case, take vehicle to authorized TATA MOTORS EV Autho- rised service Centre. In case of Manual Transmission the Gear number will be displayed when the clutch is fully re- leased. SEAT BELT REMINDER The seatbelt warning indicator remains ON for 4 seconds, when ignition is turned ON.

BELT REMINDER The seatbelt warning indicator remains ON for 4 seconds, when ignition is turned ON. The warning lamp remains ON till all occupied seats belts are buckled. If seatbelt remains unbuckled and vehicle speed goes be- yond 15 kmph, then final audio warning will go more than 90 seconds Note: Once the seatbelts are fastened, the buzzer and warning lamp turns OFF. Seatbelt reminder remains OFF when re- verse gear is engaged. 119  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Driver Information i-TPMS ERROR CONT SERV CENT - System Image Description i-TPMS ERROR CONTACT SERV CENT” text warning comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds when iTPMS system malfunction. Take your vehicle TATA MOTORS EV Authorised Service Centre. i-TPMS TYRE PRESSURE MONITORING SYSTEM (if equipped) When any of the Tire Pressure drops significantly below Recommended levels then I-TPMS Isolated / Non-lsolated system telltale comes ON with “Check all tire Pressure and Reset the TPMS system” Text Message. AVERAGE ENERGY ECONOMY FOR Trip Aand Trip B

tire Pressure and Reset the TPMS system” Text Message. AVERAGE ENERGY ECONOMY FOR Trip Aand Trip B 1130em D Trip Info TripaA Displays “Average Energy consumption” for trip A or B since it was reset Resolution: 0.1 Wh/Km Average Energy Consumption shall Reset to 0 when re- spective Trip meter is reset. Average Energy Economy shall be displayed as ‘—.-‘for ini- tial 0.5 km of respective trip. Once 0.5 km distance is cov- ered, Average Economy shall be displayed. Even after 0.5 km distance covered for particular trip, Aver- age Energy economy is displayed as ‘—-‘take vehicle to TATA MOTORS EV Authorised Service Centre. Note: 120  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER iver Information System Image 11:30pm = [—D Trip Info AEE value is estimate of Energy economy. It may vary significantly based upon driving conditions, driving ee habits and condition of vehicle. + Average Energy Consumption shall get reset to 0 when Battery is removed and refitted. DTE indicates approximate distance (km) that the vehicle Ta

0 when Battery is removed and refitted. DTE indicates approximate distance (km) that the vehicle Ta can travel with current battery charge. a DTE shall be indicated both in IGN ON & IGN OFF condi- Trip Info tions. In IGN OFF when charger is connected and charging is happening then DTE value will display as long as screen is active in the cluster. ‘RECHARGE ' shall be displayed which indicates that it’s the time to take your vehicle to the nearest charging station and the distance that a vehicle can travel with current charge is DISTANCE TO EMPTY 20 Kms. INFOTAINMENT INFORMATION ON The instrument cluster will display information like media, INSTRUMENT navigation and FM. CLUSTER DISPLAY UNIT 121  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Driver Information SETTINGS SCREEN System Image 11:30em =P Settings Illumination Unit: Dial View Secondary Area Info Description User can enter into setting screen by pressing select button while being in setting screen. Following screen gets displayed into setting screen:

select button while being in setting screen. Following screen gets displayed into setting screen: ILLUMINATION SETTING 11:30pm P Settings Illumination User can select Illumination Setting by Scroll down & press- ing Set Button in Setting Screen provided park lamp ON. User can increase the illumination from (20% to 100%) in 5 steps by using UP & SET Button. User can decrease the illumination from (100% to 20%) in 5 steps by using DOWN & SET Button. SERVICE REMINDER RESET 11:30pm =P Vehicle Info Service Reminder 26 Days and 760 km User can select Service Reminder Screen by Scroll down & pressing Set Button in Setting Screen. User can reset (Yes / Cancel) the Service Reminder by UP / DOWN & SET Buttons. Note: In the Setting menu if there is no user input for 10 secs the previous screen shall be displayed. 122  iver Information COMPASS SCREEN System Image INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Description Compass Feature shall be used for navigation and orienta- tion that shows direction relative to the

Compass Feature shall be used for navigation and orienta- tion that shows direction relative to the geographic cardinal directions CHARGING LIMITS Low Battery Set charging limit of the battery. The target charging level can be changed by 10%. Once the charging is completed as per set limit, the message is displayed SLOW CHARGE UP TO 100% rging System It is recommended to slow charge vehicle to 100% SOC to ensure’ consistent performance and_ better health of high voltage battery. Once this message appears in cluster, it is recommended that user slow charges vehicle’s high voltage battery to 100% SOC. CRITICAL BATTERY (THERMAL RUNAWAY) MALFUNCTION Critical Battery Malfunction! This message will appear in cluster along with audio warning to “Evacuate the vehicle’. In case there is a critical malfunction in high voltage battery which can lead to thermal damage, this message will appear in cluster. Customer is recommended to park vehicle in safe zone and evacuate to avoid injury. 123

in cluster. Customer is recommended to park vehicle in safe zone and evacuate to avoid injury. 123  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Driver Information System (DIS) Setting Operate the Up & down and Set Switch on steering wheel to see the Trip Info, Drive Assist, Vehicle Info, Notification, Navigation, Layout and Settings Window. Operate the Set Switch on steering wheel to reset TRIP A, AEE A, Average Speed A, Trip Time A (When TRIP A is displayed) and reset TRIP B, AFE B, Average Speed B and Trip Time B (When TRIP B is displayed). 124  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Trip Information -—— 1.1. TripA 300.0 9999.9 -—— 1.2. TripB 00:00 0.0 6 ——* 1.3. Go To Main Menu Press to go to main menu 125  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Vehicle Information 3.1. Date and Time ( l >) 3 Dec 2021 2 ) Vehicle info 3.2. Go To Main Menu to go to main menu 126  Energy Analytics =} Energy Analytics x 4.1 Histogram 4.2 Energy flow 4.3 Go to Main Menu INSTRUMENT CLUSTER 127  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Notification iQ Notifications 0) 128 -—— 5.1. Service

INSTRUMENT CLUSTER 127  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Notification iQ Notifications 0) 128 -—— 5.1. Service Reminder Service due in 760 km [—— 5.2. Notification ice Due in 345Kms or Notification 2 Notification 3 ——+ 5.3. Go To Main Menu to go to main menu  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Layout 6.1. Go To Main Menu Minimal View ——+ 6.2. Go To Main Menu to go to main menu 129  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Setting Screen r— 7.1. Illumination i» 7.2. Clock 130  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER ;— 7.4. Favourite Menu [> 7.5. Factory Reset Op? Settings Factory Reset? Y Cancel t—* 7.6. Service Reminder Reset set Service Reminder? Button —+ 7.7. About 131  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER WARNINGS and INDICATORS Warning Lamps Service Indicator Color Amber/Re d Indicator Remarks In case of Power Train Sensors (AC Charging Inlet Temperature Sensor, AC Lin- ear Pressure Sensor etc.) & Actuators (Fan, Pump, Regen Switch, Eco / Sport Switch etc.) failure then this Amber indicator will glow. When there is high severity then Red indicator will glow. Please

this Amber indicator will glow. When there is high severity then Red indicator will glow. Please take your vehicle to nearest TATA MOTORS EV Authorised Service Centre at the earliest. Immobilizer (if equipped) Red 1. This lamp comes on when the system disables vehicle start if the original key is not used. 2. Lamp blinks: Vehicle is in immobilized condition when key is not inserted. 3. Lamp ON: Problem with key/system. Contact a TATA MOTORS EV Author- ized Service Centre. 4. Lamp OFF: Normal condition (Authenticated user) and vehicle will start. Turn Signal Green Indicates direction indicated by the turn signal. Blinks along with buzzer while operating left/right turn indicator only when igni- tion is switched ‘ON’. The direction indicator arrow on Instrument Cluster flashes along with external indicator lights as selected. Both Tell tales shall blink simul- taneously when Hazard switch is pressed irrespective of Ignition ON and the Tick-Tock sound shall be given when any one or both

is pressed irrespective of Ignition ON and the Tick-Tock sound shall be given when any one or both the Tell tales are ON. 132  Tate [Ceri Ke) INSTRUMENT CLUSTER emark This lamp comes on when the high beam headlamps are switched ‘ON’ or High Beam Blue Ee) flashed. This symbol lights up when the ‘IGN’ is turned ‘ON’ and should go ‘OFF’ after the vehicle starts. . NOTE: LV Battery charging Red f=] If it remains ‘ON’ while the vehicle is running, it indicates that the battery is not getting charged. Switch off all unnecessary electrical equipment and get the problem attended at TATA MOTORS EV Authorised Service Centre. This lamp comes on when ignition is switched ‘ON’ and goes ‘OFF’ in approx. 4 Airbag status Red seconds. If it continuously remains on or blinks then contact the TATA MOTORS EV Authorised service Centre immediately. Illuminates momentarily when ignition is switched ‘ON’. Once parking brake Park Brake / Brake is released, it turns ‘OFF’. If it remains ‘ON’, it indicates.

parking brake Park Brake / Brake is released, it turns ‘OFF’. If it remains ‘ON’, it indicates. Fluid Low / EBD Red 1. Brake fluid level is low. malfunction 2. Park brake is applied & turns ‘OFF’ when it is released. 3. ABS/EBD system has a fault. Cruise Control This symbol lights up when the ‘IGN’ is turned ‘ON’ and shall go ‘OFF’ after 4 sec. The Cruise Control is used to indicate the status of cruise control system to lamp Green . an . ae . . the driver. Lamp ON indicates cruise control feature is present and it is acti- (if equipped) vated. Illuminates momentarily when ignition is switched ‘ON’. EPAS Amber Illuminates when there is a fault in the EPAS. Contact the TATA MOTORS EV Authorized Service Centre immediately. 133  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER cle vehicle. Warn amps Color Indicator Remarks Seat belt warning indicator comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds, when ignition is turned ‘ON’ irrespective of seat belt buckle status. If seat belt is not fastened then Telltale will be ON as initial warning

seat belt buckle status. If seat belt is not fastened then Telltale will be ON as initial warning with No Driver Seat Belt In- Fr audio warning i.e. chime. If seat belt remains unbuckled & vehicle speed goes dicator Red | above 15 kmph, Final Warning will start with audio chime for 93 seconds contin- W uously. NOTE: * Once the seat belt is fastened, the buzzer & warning indicator will go ‘OFF’. * Seat belt indicator & audio alarm remains OFF when reverse gear is engaged. AVH Indicator turns ‘ON’ for 4 seconds, when ignition is turned ‘ON’ irrespective AVH Indicator (If Amber +f of input state. equipped ) This feature monitors AVH function in ESP system and warns the driver in case of AVH function malfunction. Illuminates when ignition is switched ‘ON’ and goes ‘OFF’ in 3 seconds. Illumi- ABS Amber ©) nates continuously if there is any malfunction in ABS. Normal braking system will be operational without assistance of ABS. Contact a TATA MOTORS EV Au- thorised Service Centre

will be operational without assistance of ABS. Contact a TATA MOTORS EV Au- thorised Service Centre immediately. Key Not Detected Amber _@i This lamp comes on when the Valid Smart key is not detected inside the vehicle. (if equipped) Press / Brake Pedal to Start vehi- Amber | Sy This lamp comes on with IGN ON till user presses the brake pedal to start the (if equipped) 134  Daytime running Tate [Ceri Ke) INSTRUMENT CLUSTER emark indicator lamps Green This lamp comes on when the Daytime Running lamp is ‘ON’. DRL (if equipped) Door Ajar lamp (if White / All four door and Tail gate are indicated independently when the respective door equipped) Red or tail gate is open. Illuminates momentarily when ignition is switched ‘ON’. ECO Green When ECO lamp is ON, it indicates the car is in ‘Economy’ drive mode. city Blue Illuminates momentarily when ignition is switched ‘ON’. If CITY lamp is ON, it indicates ‘City’ drive mode, which is default mode. SPORT Amber EN This symbol comes ON when SPORT

indicates ‘City’ drive mode, which is default mode. SPORT Amber EN This symbol comes ON when SPORT driving mode is activated. When the vehicle speed crosses 80 kmph, then speed limit warning indicator Speed limit warnin turns ‘ON’ along with an audio chime for every two minutes (audible warning). P 3} Amber When the vehicle speed is reduced below 75 kmph, then the speed limit warn- ing indicator and the audio warning will turn off. 135  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Warn amps Color Indicator Remarks If vehicle speed crosses 120 kmph, the speed limit warning indicator flashes along with an audio warning for every two sec one beep (audible warning) until the vehicle speed is above 120 kmph. When the vehicle speed is reduced below 115 kmph, then speed limit warning indicator turns ‘ON’ along with an audio chime for every two minutes one beep (audible warning) iTPMS (Isolated/Non-lso- lated) Amber 1. This symbol comes ON and blink for 4 second if Tyre Pressure is LOW/HIGH, Tyre temperature is HIGH,

This symbol comes ON and blink for 4 second if Tyre Pressure is LOW/HIGH, Tyre temperature is HIGH, Tyre air pressure leakage. After 4 second symbol will continuously ON till warning is present. 2. This symbol comes on and blink for 10 second if TPMS system has fault and TPMS Sensor fault / missing. After 10 second symbol will continuously ON till fault is present, Please take your vehicle to nearest TATA MOTORS EV Autho- rised Service Centre at the earliest. HDC Warning lamp (if equipped) Amber Illuminates if Hill Decent Control System is activated. If continuously ON then HDC system is at fault condition, Please take your vehicle to nearest TATA au- thorized service Centre at the earliest. HDC ON (if equipped) Green Illuminates momentarily when ignition is switched ‘ON’. This symbol comes on when the HDC function is activated in the vehicle. HHC warning lamp (if equipped) Amber Illuminates momentarily when ignition is switched ‘ON’. If continuously on then HHC, system is in fault

momentarily when ignition is switched ‘ON’. If continuously on then HHC, system is in fault condition. Please take your vehi- cle to TATA MOTORS EV Authorised service Centre at the earliest. 136  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER perature Tate [Ceri Ke) Remark: a When there is high severity then Red indicator will glow. Please take your vehi- HV Critical Alert Red UN cle to nearest TATA MOTORS EV Authorised service center at the earliest. Park Lamp Indica- . ‘ . a . tor Green Park Lamp Indicators used to display/Indicate the Position Lamp to Driver. Charging Fail Indi- This symbol is displayed when the vehicle is not getting charged even if the Caton 9g Red charger is connected. Contact the TATA MOTORS EV Authorized Service Cen- tre to get the charging fail issue resolved Charger Connected Blue | tow symbol lights up as soon as the charger is connected for charging the bat- Charging Indicator Green #| This symbol is displayed when your vehicle is getting charged. This symbol lights up when the

#| This symbol is displayed when your vehicle is getting charged. This symbol lights up when the temperature of the motor is higher, and motor Motor High Tem- Red acho becomes hot. Park your vehicle safely and wait for the temperature to become normal. If the problem persists, contact the TATA MOTORS EV Authorized Service Centre 137  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Warn amps Color Indicator Remarks Battery High Tem- This symbol lights up when the temperature of the battery is higher, and battery ry wg Red becomes hot. Contact the TATA MOTORS EV Authorised Service Centre if this perature nee . . indicator is getting on frequently. This symbol indicates the vehicle gone into limited performance mode. This usu- Limp Home Mode Amber ally happens when the battery reaches 10% threshold or if there is any minor fault in power transmission or electrical components. High Voltage (HV) This symbol lights up the voltage of the battery is too high and cause damage. Net 9 Red Park your vehicle safely and

up the voltage of the battery is too high and cause damage. Net 9 Red Park your vehicle safely and contact the TATA MOTORS EV Authorized Service Centre Drive Ready Green a) This symbol indicated that your vehicle is ready to drive This feature provides the HV battery Low/Zero Charge Status to the user. A bulb check shall be performed for this TT at every IGN ON for 4 seconds. The TT zero charge/Low Red shall remain ON irrespective of the Input state during these 4 seconds. This tell- Charge tale shall be controlled turned ON/OFF by receiving the SoC input when the SoC level is low TT will turn ON to indicate charging system battery low to the user. 138  Warning Lamps AC ON Color Blue Indicator INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Remarks This feature provides AC status to user. A bulb check shall be performed for this TT at every IGN ON for 4 seconds. The TT shall remain ON irrespective of the Input state during these 4 seconds. This Telltale is ON when AC is turn ON by user. Co-Driver Seat Belt

state during these 4 seconds. This Telltale is ON when AC is turn ON by user. Co-Driver Seat Belt Indicator (Passen- ger) Red oo WW If Co-Driver (Passenger) is present and its seat belt is not buckled and IGN is ON then Telltale will be ON as initial warning with No audio chime. If Co-Driver (Passenger) seat belt remains unbuckled and vehicle speed goes above 15 km/ hr, Then Seat belt telltale will also start flashing along with audio alarm during Final Warning. Note: Buckle the Co-Driver (Passenger) seat belt to stop Audible warning and telltale OFF. Rear Seat Belt Indi- cator (If equipped) Red | lena) If Rear Passenger (Right / Middle / Left) is present and its seat belt is not buck- led and IGN is ON then Telltale will be ON as initial warning with No audio chime. If Rear Passenger (Right / Middle / Left) seat belt remains unbuckled and vehi- cle speed goes above 15 km/hr, Then Seat belt telltale will also start flashing along with audio alarm during Final Warning. Note: Buckle the

telltale will also start flashing along with audio alarm during Final Warning. Note: Buckle the Rear Passenger (Right / Middle / Left) seat belt to stop Audible warning and telltale OFF EPB MIL Fault Amber In case of malfunction in EBP MIL function in ESP system this indicator will glow. Please take your vehicle to nearest TATA MOTORS EV Authorised Service Centre at the earliest HDC ON Green When ignition is turned ‘ON’, this symbol comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds and goes ‘OFF’. This symbol comes on when the HDC function is activated in the vehicle. 139  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Warning Lamp Colo Remarks AUTO Vehicle In case of malfunction in AVH function in ESP system this amber indicator will HOLD(AVH) Amber glow. Please take your vehicle to nearest TATA MOTORS EV Authorised service Warning centre at the earliest ESP Illuminates momentarily when ignition is switched ‘ON’. (if equipped) Amber If continuously ON then ESP system is at fault condition, Please take your vehi- cle to nearest TATA

continuously ON then ESP system is at fault condition, Please take your vehi- cle to nearest TATA MOTORS EV Authorised Service Centre at the earliest. 140  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER DISPLAY MESSAGES ON INSTRUMENT CLUSTER (IF EQUIPPED) Warning Messages Warning / Information Title Warning Message Title Warning Message On Instrument Cluster 1 Fasten Seat Belt - Driver Seat Belt Reminder Fasten Driver Seat Belt 2 Speed Limit Warning Speed Limit Warning Over Speeding Detected Slow Down 3 Drive Control Shift Denied Drive Mode Warning Drive Control Shift Denied 4 Hill Hold Control Failure Hill Hold Control Malfunction Detected Contact Service Center 5 Hill Decent Control Failure Hill Decent Control Malfunction Detected Contact Service Center 6 Charging Level Low State Charging Level Warning Charging Level Low 7 Fasten seat belt front passenger Seat Belt Reminder Fasten Front passenger Seat Belt 8 Transmission Failure Limp home Acti- Transmission System Malfunction Detected Contact Service Center

Failure Limp home Acti- Transmission System Malfunction Detected Contact Service Center vated Visit Service Center 141  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Alert Messages Sn_ Alert / Information Title Alert Message Title Action To Be Taken . . Service Due in/Service Overdue by Contact to TATA MOTORS EV Authorised 1 Service Reminder Days rm ” . value” days Service Centre 2 Park Brake Engaged Brake Alert Park Brake Engaged 3 Charging Full Battery Fully Charged Remove Charger Safely . . Service Due in/Service Overdue by Contact to TATA MOTORS EV Authorised 4 Service Reminder Kms rm ” . value” km Service Centre 9 5 Charging below 100% eatery XX% Charged Range YYY Remove Charger Safely 6 Auto Headlamp Lamp Alert Auto Headlamp Activated 7 eae Low & user changes gear Sport Mode Not Recommended Change gear to any Eco or City mode 8 Charging ON Park brake OFF Engage Park Brake to Start Charging | Engage Park Brake to Start Charging 9 HV Critical alert Critical Alert Contact Service Center Contact TATA MOTORS

to Start Charging 9 HV Critical alert Critical Alert Contact Service Center Contact TATA MOTORS EV Authorised Serv- ice Centre 10 |Slow Down Vehicle Speed Slow Down to Turn Off Vehicle Press the brake pedal to slow down vehicle "1 Slow Charge up to 100%Slow Slow Charge up to 100%Slow Charge |It is recommended that user slow charges Charge up to 100% up to 100% vehicle’s high voltage battery to 100% SoC. 12 |Critical Battery Malfunction Park vehicle safely and Evacuate Im- | It is recommended to park vehicle in safe mediately zone and evacuate to avoid injury. 142  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Interrupt Messages Sn Alert / Information Title Action To Be Taken 1 Rotate steering wheel (In ESCL jam condition) Press Start Button while Turning Wheel 2 Drive Alert - Tea Break Take a Break 3 Steering Failure-Visit Garage Steering Failure Contact Service Center 4 Steering Failure-Stop Driving Steering Failure Stop the Vehicle Safely 5 Door Ajar Close the door 6 ESCL Press Start Button While Turning

Failure Stop the Vehicle Safely 5 Door Ajar Close the door 6 ESCL Press Start Button While Turning Wheel 7 No Key Smart Key Out of Range 8 Low Key Battery Smart Key Battery Low Replace Battery 9 Press Brake Pedal Press Brake Pedal to Start Engine 10 Drive Modes Respective drive mode 11 Tea Break Take a Break 12 Release Park Brake Press Brake Pedal to Release Park Brake 13 Happy Birthday Happy Birthday 143  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER AUDIO REMINDERS Sr. No Feature 1 Parking Lamp ‘ON’ Reminder Condition if you forget to turn OFF the park lights and driver door is open Reminder An audio warning will be started. Do not for- get to turn OFF your park lights as it may drain the vehicle’s battery. Parking brake ‘ON’ reminder If Park Brake is applied and vehicle is driven above 5 Km/h, telltale shall blink along with chime continuously. Disengage the park brake to stop the warning. Tell tale will turn ‘ON’ and buzzer will provide audio warning continuously. Disengage the park brake to stop audio

‘ON’ and buzzer will provide audio warning continuously. Disengage the park brake to stop audio warning. 3 |Reverse Gear reminder if reverse gear is engaged The buzzer sound will alert you for 1 second. 4 |Driver Seat Belt reminder if seatbelt is not fastened and vehicle goes above 15 kmph Then final audio warning will go on for more than 90 seconds. Seat belt tell-tale light will remain continuously ON when audio alarm is active. Front passenger Seat Belt re- minder if front passenger has not fastened seat- belt and if vehicle speed goes above 15 kmph, then final audio warning will go on for more than 90 seconds. Seat belt tell-tale light will remain continu- ously ON when audio alarm is active. Note: Fasten the seatbelt to stop audio warn- ing. 6 |Drive mode chime When user switches drive mode from city to eco or city to sport (if equipped) Sound warning for 1 second will be given to alert user. 144  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Ne Feature Condition Reminder Electronic Steering Column This

alert user. 144  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER Ne Feature Condition Reminder Electronic Steering Column This feature informs the driver to rotate This chime is sounded in IGN OFF mode for . steering wheel when ESCL gets engaged 7 Lock (ESCL) chime . 3 secs. inadvertently. Buzzer will start along with the motor high temperature warning lamp blinking to indi- High Temperature alert for When machine and inverter temperature cate the user to contact TATA MOTORS EV 8 Motor cross the max limit from the BMS Authorised Service Centre.. TT and buzzer will be in sync continuously till the state re- mains TRUE. 1) If, Tyre Pressure is low 9 Tyre Pressure is high iTPMS chimes shall sound for 4 secs and for iTPMS chime Tyre temperature is high TPMS fault conditions TPMS chime shall Tyre air pressure leakage sound for 10 sec. 2) Kf, TPMS system has fault TPMS Sensor fault or missing 10 |PEPS Key not detected chime _|If PEPS key is not detected in the vehicle |Sound warning will be given to alert User 11 Low

_|If PEPS key is not detected in the vehicle |Sound warning will be given to alert User 11 Low battery charging Chime When Auxiliary battery charging fault oc- curs with high criticality, buzzer will start along with the warning lamp blinking to in Warning lamp and buzzer will be in alert con- tinuously till the state remains TRUE. 145  INSTRUMENT CLUSTER NG Feature Condition Reminder dicate the user to contact TATA MOTORS EV Authorised Service Centre. 12 Charging ON & Park Brake When charger is connected & Park brake Sound will be given to alert User OFF Chime is disengaged. 13 |Regen Level chime When Regen level is change. Sound will be given to alert User If iTPMS alert condition occurs, iTPMS 14 |Cell Voltage Low Fault chime [chimes shall sound for 4 secs and for Sound will be given to alert User for 10sec. TPMS fault conditions. If Rear Passenger is present & its seat belt | Audio Chime will continue for 93 seconds. 15 |Rear Seat Belt reminder remains unbuckled and vehicle speed

Chime will continue for 93 seconds. 15 |Rear Seat Belt reminder remains unbuckled and vehicle speed goes | Seat belt telltale will remain continuously ON above 15 km/hr, Final Warning will start. when audio alarm is active. Sound will start along with the battery high . temperature warning lamp blinking to indi- 16 High Temperature alert for When maximum battery cell temperature cate the user to contact TATA MOTORS EV Battery crosses the limit specified Authorised Service Centre. Warning lamp and buzzer will be in sync continuously till the state remains TRUE. 146  BEFORE YOU START YOUR EV Make sure that the area around the ve- hicle is clear. Do a check of the fluid levels - coolant, brake fluid, and windshield washer fluid as frequently as possible. Make sure that all windows and lights are clean. Examine the tyres for their appear- ance, inflation pressure and condition. Make sure that all doors are closed. Position the seat and adjust the head- rests. Adjust the inside and outside

all doors are closed. Position the seat and adjust the head- rests. Adjust the inside and outside mirrors. Fasten seat belts and ask all passen- gers to do likewise. Do a check of the operation of the warning lights when the power switch is pushed to the ON position. For ad- ditional information, refer to “Warning lamps and audible reminders” in the “Instrument Cluster” section of this manual. Procedure To Start EV 1. With the smart key / flip key sit in the driver’s seat (if equipped)/Engage the key in the lock set. Fasten the seat belt before you start the vehicle. Turn off all electrical devices. Make sure to engage the parking brake for your safety. Make sure the accelerator and brake pedal have clearance with your right foot. Make sure to press and hold the brake pedal. Press and hold the brake while pressing the start/stop button or turn- ing the key to on position. The vehicle will get ON in ‘P’ mode only and it will be automatically se- lected. When ‘Ready’ message appears,

will get ON in ‘P’ mode only and it will be automatically se- lected. When ‘Ready’ message appears, you can drive the vehicle. Else, you cannot drive the vehicle. Start the vehicle again. STARTING AND DRIVING AX WARNING When the ‘Ready’ message is ON and if the gear is in a position other than N (Neutral), the driver can accidently press the accelerator pedal, causing the vehicle to move unexpectedly. 9. Shift using gear shifter to the desired position (D/R). Parking brake will be still engaged. 10. Release the parking brake and slowly release the brake pedal. See if the ve- hicle slowly moves forward, then press the accelerator pedal. ASW 23.5 fH 100: 147  STARTING AND DRIVING @ NOTE + If start/stop button is pressed, first press will bring the vehicle to the ACC ON condition. Second press will bring the vehicle to the ignition ON condition. To start the vehicle press the brake pedal. Third press will switch OFF the vehicle. 148 Procedure To Stop EV 1. Hold down the brake pedal until

press will switch OFF the vehicle. 148 Procedure To Stop EV 1. Hold down the brake pedal until the ve- hicle comes to hault. 2. Continue to press the brake pedal, first shift to N mode and further shift to P mode/engage parking brake. 3. Press the start/stop button or turn the key to OFF position to stop the vehicle. Range of Your EV Your EV can drive as per given range in below table, when the high voltage battery is 100 per cent charged. However, in cer- tain situations like driving at high speed or when the air conditioner/heater is ON, the distance to empty can reduce significantly, as the high voltage battery consumes more electricity. S.n. Variants Range aed 1 | Option! a 100% 2 | Option Il ae 100% * Range mentioned under standard test condition. If the “—-” symbol is displayed, charge the vehicle immediately. After you charge your vehicle, the distance to empty reading may vary significantly depending on previous operating patterns. When previous driving patterns include high

significantly depending on previous operating patterns. When previous driving patterns include high speed driving, result- ing in the driving battery using more elec- tricity than usual, the estimated distance to empty is reduced. When the high voltage battery uses a little electricity in ECO mode, the estimated dis- tance to empty increases. Distance to empty may depend on many factors such as the charge available in the high voltage battery, weather, temperature, durability of the battery, geographical features, and driving style. Natural degradation may occur with the high voltage battery de- pending on the number of years the vehi-  cle is used. This may reduce the distance to empty. Contact your nearest TATA MO- TORS EV Authorised Service Centre to re- place the battery in that case. ELECTRIC POWER ASSISTED STEERING (EPAS) Your vehicle is equipped with electric power assisted steering system. The EPAS system makes steering the vehicle easier with less effort. n EPAS system, the

system. The EPAS system makes steering the vehicle easier with less effort. n EPAS system, the steering effort be- comes heavier as the vehicle speed in- creases and becomes lighter as the vehicle speed decreases for better control of the vehicle at different vehicle speeds. if the vehicle is ‘OFF’ or if the EPAS sys- tem becomes inoperative, the vehicle still can be steered with more steering effort. This EPAS system is available with the fol- lowing assist features 1. Speed sensitive assist control 2. Active return control STARTING AND DRIVING + Aclick noise may be heard from the EPAS relay after the ignition switch is turned ON or OFF position. + The steering wheel may not unlock normally in some cases when igni- tion key turned ‘ON’ or ISS button pressed. If this happens, turn the steering wheel to the right or left slightly to unlock the steering wheel while turning the ignition key or pressing ISS button. * Contact the nearest TATA MOTORS EV Authorised Service Centre if in case

or pressing ISS button. * Contact the nearest TATA MOTORS EV Authorised Service Centre if in case of the above scenarios. AX WARNING In case of below malfunction conditions, then, take your vehicle to the nearest TATA MOTORS EV Authorised Service Centre and have the EPAS system checked as soon as possible. + Vehicle noise may be heard when the vehicle is driven at low speeds. 149  STARTING AND DRIVING 150 If the EPAS system does not oper- ate normally, the warning light will illuminate on the instrument cluster. The steering wheel rotation may become difficult to control or operate. The EPAS warning light does not il- luminate. STEERING LOCK / UNLOCK AND IGNITION SWITCH Steering Lock / Unlock To adjust the steering wheel 1. Adjust the seat to a comfortable posi- tion. 2. Push the tilt lever completely down to unlock the steering column. 3. Adjust the steering wheel to the de- sired position. 4. Pull the tilt lever up completely to lock the steering column. 5. Make sure that steering

4. Pull the tilt lever up completely to lock the steering column. 5. Make sure that steering wheel is se- curely locked by checking up and down direction. OTE When adjusting the steering wheel, make sure that: * You can see control pedals without any obstacles. + You can see all the displays in the instrument cluster clearly. A\ WARNING Before you start the car, make sure the steering wheel position is locked. Do not unlock or adjust the steering wheel while the vehicle is in motion.  Ignition Switch (if equipped) The ignition switch has the following four positions: Lock This is the normal parking position. Key from lock can be removed in this position only. “LOCK” position prevents normal use of the steering wheel after the key is re- moved. To release the steering lock, put the key in the slot and turn it clockwise to one click (ACC). ACC Accessories such as the infotainment sys- tem can be operated, but the vehicle re- mains ‘OFF’. Steering gets unlocked. ON This is the normal

tem can be operated, but the vehicle re- mains ‘OFF’. Steering gets unlocked. ON This is the normal operating position. All electrical systems are ‘ON’. START Turn the key further clockwise to the START position, (spring loaded) to start the vehicle. As soon as the vehicle starts, release the ignition key, which returns to ON position. While cranking, all acces- sories will be momentarily ‘OFF’. Illuminated Key Ring (if equipped) When the vehicle is unlocked, the illumi- nated key ring glows. This helps to locate ignition switch in the dark. STARTING AND DRIVING Start /Stop switch (if equipped) Single press start/stop switch will bring the vehicle to the ACC ON condition (Amber color) Second press will bring the vehicle to the ignition ON condition (Green color). To start the vehicle press the brake pedal and press the start/stop switch again. Press the start stop switch again to switch OFF the vehicle. With EPAS it gets automatically locked and unlocked as the ignition switch is

OFF the vehicle. With EPAS it gets automatically locked and unlocked as the ignition switch is OFF/ON. 151  STARTING AND DRIVING DRIVING TIPS Driving Through Flooded Water We do not recommend you to drive through flooded water as it may enter the vehicle interior and motor compartment which could damage power electronic , electronic & electrical systems. Judge the depth of water before driving through it. ZX WARNING If vehicle is flooded with water,do not attempt to start the vehicle. Tow the vehicle to a safe place. Contact a nearest TATA MOTORS EV Authorised Service Centre. Driving on a Wet Road Check wiper blades, lights and brakes for proper functioning and condition. Check the tyre treads depth, the con- dition of the tread and tyre. Avoid harsh braking and sharp turns. It may cause loss of control and lead to a skid. Keep lights ‘ON’ if visibility is poor 152 WARNING On wet road or during light showers, “Aquaplaning” can occur. “Aquaplaning” is the loss of direct contact between

during light showers, “Aquaplaning” can occur. “Aquaplaning” is the loss of direct contact between the road surface and the vehicle’s tyres due to a water film forming between them. Steering or braking the vehicle can be very difficult, and loss of control can occur. There is no hard and fast rule about aquaplaning. The best advice is to slow down when the road is wet. @ NOTE If you have driven for a long time in heavy rain without braking, there may be a delayed reaction from the brakes when braking for the first time. You have to press the brake pedal more firmly. Maintain a greater distance from the ve- hicle in front Driving on snowy roads While driving on snow, it is advisable to use the snow chain on roads. Follow as- sembly and safety instruction provided by the snow chain manufacturers. ZX WARNING Wet ice (0°C and freezing rain), snow or ice can be slick and very hard to drive on. The vehicle will have much less traction or “grip” under these conditions. Try to avoid driving

on. The vehicle will have much less traction or “grip” under these conditions. Try to avoid driving on wet ice until the road is salted or sanded. ¢« Whatever the conditions, drive with caution. Accelerate and slow down with care. If accelerating too fast, the drive wheels will lose even more traction. + Allow more stopping distance under these conditions. Braking should be started sooner than on dry pave- ment. + Allow greater following distances on slippery roads. + Watch for slippery spots (glare ice). These may appear on an otherwise clear road in shaded areas. If a patch of ice is seen ahead, brake before reaching it. Try not to brake while on the ice, and avoid any sud  den steering maneuvers. + Donotuse cruise control on slippery roads. ZX WARNING + While driving on snow or ice , use high quality ethylene glycol coolant «Your vehicle is delivered with high quality ethylene glycol coolant in the cooling system. It is the only type of coolant that should be used be- cause it

coolant in the cooling system. It is the only type of coolant that should be used be- cause it helps prevent corrosion in the cooling system, lubricates the water pump and prevents freezing. Be sure to replace or replenish your coolant in accordance with the maintenance schedule * Before winter, have your coolant tested to assure that its freezing Night Driving «Ensure that all lights are working and windshield, window glasses are clean. * Drive more slowly at night than in the daytime, as the visual range is re- stricted at night. Maintain a speed such that you can stop within illuminated distance of headlamps. * Do not use the high beam unless in- evitable. It may dazzle the driver of the oncoming vehicle, thus causing an ac- cident. + Use headlamp main/dip beam to alert other road users on turns/ cross roads etc. * Use side indicators for lane change or turning Driving on Gradients When driving down a hill, ease off on the accelerator to slow down. Do not drive in neutral or turn

When driving down a hill, ease off on the accelerator to slow down. Do not drive in neutral or turn the vehicle off. EV’s give best range between speeds of 40 — 60 kmpnh. Therefore they are ideal for city applications. Driving in this range along with following of other points here will add your mileage significantly. A driv- ing speed band of 60 to 80 kmph is rec- ommended on highway. At high speed, the range may result in significant drop in range. STARTING AND DRIVING AX WARNING On long and steep gradients you must reduce the load on the brakes by taking your foot off the accelerator pedal. This allows you to take advantage of regen- erative braking effect and helps avoid overheating of service brakes resulting in reduced braking efficiency. Driving on Highway Do not change the accelerator pedal in- puts rapidly. GO as smooth as possible. EV’s being instantaneous torque and power — there is very little lag in translating the pedal input to vehicle response. Stopping distance

— there is very little lag in translating the pedal input to vehicle response. Stopping distance progressively, in- creases with vehicle speed. Maintain a sufficient distance between your vehicle and the vehicle ahead. For long distance driving, perform safety checks before starting a trip and take rest at certain intervals to prevent fatigue. Driving in Heat and cold weather The heating and cooling on the car uses energy from the battery. Set temperatures 153  STARTING AND DRIVING to a comfortable 24° C - 26° C with Auto mode and Econ activated, and see the comfort as well as the range go up signifi- cantly ZA\ CAUTION Do not store the vehicle in temperatures below -25°C for more than seven days. If the outside temperature is -25°C or less, the Li-ion battery may freeze and it cannot be charged or provide power to run the vehicle. Move the vehicle to a warm location 154 TIPS TO GET MAXIMUM RANGE WHILE DRIVING EV ¢ If safe to do so, modulate the acceler- ator pedal instead of using

RANGE WHILE DRIVING EV ¢ If safe to do so, modulate the acceler- ator pedal instead of using the brake pedal when gradually slowing down. Whenever the vehicle is moving and you are not pressing the accelerator pedal, regenerative braking slows down the vehicle and feeds surplus en- ergy back to the HV battery. + Limit the use of resources such as heating, and air conditioning. If you op- erate the air conditioner/heater for long duration, it will use too much electricity rom HV battery. Turn OFF the heater and air conditioner if you do not need hem. + Using the climate control system to heat the cabin when the outside tem- perature is below 0°C uses more elec- ticity and affects vehicle range more han when using the heater when the emperature is above 0°C. * Press and hold the accelerator pedal ‘0 maintain speed and drive economi- cally. Gradually press and release the accel- erator pedal when accelerating or de- celerating. Do not use unnecessary electrical components while driving.

when accelerating or de- celerating. Do not use unnecessary electrical components while driving. Do not load unnecessary items in the vehicle trunk. Any additional load in the car drains the battery. Do not add more accessories, do not keep dead weight in the car, and in general travel as light as possible. Do not mount parts on the exterior of the car as it might increase drag. Service schedule should be adhered to. Fluid levels should be maintained within tolerance limits. Both of these also helps in realizing the maximum range potential of an electric vehicle To optimize driving range use drive/eco mode and maintain the rec- ommended tyre pressure. Drive in ECO mode * ECO mode helps reduce power consumption by reducing acceler- ation when compared to the same  accelerator pedal position in the D (Drive) position. * Drive at a constant speed. Maintain cruising speeds with constant acceler- ator positions as much as possible. * Accelerate slowly and smoothly. Gen- ly press and

acceler- ator positions as much as possible. * Accelerate slowly and smoothly. Gen- ly press and release the accelerator pedal for acceleration and decelera- ion. * Vehicle range may be substantially re- duced in extremely cold conditions (for example, 0°C). + Release the accelerator pedal to slow down and do not apply the brakes when traffic and road conditions allow. Acceleration, Braking and Coasting Acceleration: This vehicle has a single speed automated gearbox. In accelerating mode, the torque supplied by the motor via the gearbox to the front wheels is linear in nature. 1. Regenerative Braking * This vehicle is equipped with a regenerative brake system. The primary pur- pose of the regen- erative brake system is to pro- vide some power to help recharge the Li-ion battery and extend driving range. Regenerative Braking * The electric motor when decelerating and braking and transforms kinetic en- ergy to electrical energy in order to charge the high voltage battery. (Torque is

kinetic en- ergy to electrical energy in order to charge the high voltage battery. (Torque is applied in the opposite di- rection when decelerating to generate braking force and electricity). * Asecondary benefit is an effect similar to “vehicle braking” seen in IC vehicle cars. Here, it depends on HV battery condition. ¢ Inthe Drive mode, when the accelera- tor is released, the regenerative brake system provides some deceleration STARTING AND DRIVING and generates power for the high volt- age battery. Power is also generated when the brake pedal is applied. The calibration on the regen is done in such a way that most people can ex- perience a “single pedal” drive at most times, just lift your feet of the acceler- ator pedal to slow the vehicle down and gain range. Brake lightly if re- quired When you brake and take your foot off the accelerator pedal, more regenera- tive brake is applied than in the drive mode. However, during high-speed driving you may feel that regenerative brake

than in the drive mode. However, during high-speed driving you may feel that regenerative brake provides less deceleration than the motor braking in an ordinary vehi- cle. This is normal. Less deceleration is provided by the regenerative brake system when the Li-ion battery is fully charged. Regen- erative brake is automatically reduced when the high voltage battery is fully charged to prevent it from overcharg- ing. 155  STARTING AND DRIVING + Regenerative brake is also automati- cally reduced when the battery temper- ature is high/low to prevent battery damage. * The brake pedal should be used to slow or stop the vehicle depending on traffic or road conditions. The vehicle brakes are not affected by regenera- tive brake system operation. + Use correct Regen Selection for better range. 2. Interior Climate Heating and Air con- ditioning system uses energy from the high voltage battery and this reduces range. For maximizing range during air-condition- ing on driving, it is recommended

this reduces range. For maximizing range during air-condition- ing on driving, it is recommended to set the air conditioning in Auto mode with Econ activated. Also the set temperature should be set between 24-26 deg C. EV is equipped with Remote Air conditioning. You can remotely start Air Conditioning system. However, this also Interior Climate 156 consumes energy from the high voltage battery and reduces the driving range. 3. Driving Speeds At high speeds, greater than 80kmph, high amount of en- ergy is spent in pro- pelling the vehicle and hence reduces range. Similarly, idling for long duration also reduces range significantly 4. Driving Style Driving Speeds Driving behavior has a significant influence on the driving range of an electric vehicle. Frequent and heavy accelerations will have a detrimental impact on car’s driv- ing range whereas travelling at a steady pace, in between 40-80 km/hr will help an electric car to maximize range. Predictive driving with gradual acceleration

km/hr will help an electric car to maximize range. Predictive driving with gradual acceleration reduces your reliance on hard braking. This helps = Driving Style conserve energy during acceleration and regenerate optimally during deceleration. However, brake should be applied as nec- essary to avoid hazards to occupants and surrounding. 5. Tyre Pressure Maintaining specified Tyre pressure only en- sures comfortable ride comfort but also maxi- mizes range by minimiz- ing rolling losses of the vehicle. It is advisable to regularly monitor and maintain the tyre pressure within specified limits. 6. Unauthorized Electrical Acces- sories Tyre Pressure Unauthorized aftermar- ket electrical acces- sories can potentially consume higher energy than factory fitted ones and may affect range di- rectly. They can also lead to functional complications and lower component life in the long run. It is recom- Unauthorized Electrical Accessories  mended to fit only TATA Genuine Acces- sories at

It is recom- Unauthorized Electrical Accessories  mended to fit only TATA Genuine Acces- sories at Authorized EV Service stations. 7. Vehicle Maintenance Vehicle to be serv- iced regularly as per service schedule in authorized service stations. It helps in maximizing vehicle performance and component life. 8. Battery Charging For every 4 consecu- tive fast charges, 1 complete slow charge is recom- mended (<20% to 100% SoC) to ensure consistent perform- ance and _ better health of the high voltage battery. This im- proves charge balancing during charging as) Vehicle Maintenance {umm}: Battery Charging and deliver better driving range. 9. Dead Weight Dead weight like bags, boxes etc. which is not required should be removed from the car. This lowers the energy re- quired to propel the vehicle and improves driving range. Dead Weight STARTING AND DRIVING 157  STARTING AND DRIVING Limp Home Strategy Soc Intervention Zone IPC message and state Max speed Acceleration Grade ability Cabin

Strategy Soc Intervention Zone IPC message and state Max speed Acceleration Grade ability Cabin cooling If the vehicle is in Sport mode, it oro will automatically shift to Drive 5 SoC <=25% mode which will be shown on clus- No change No change 29% No change ter Then SoC Gauge 1* Bar ON with single chime and low charge, Limp SoC <=10% Home Tell-tale will be ON & “ 50 kmph Reduced 18% No cooling RECHAGE’ will display SoC Gauge 1st Bar will Blink SoC <=5% along with Low Charger tell-tale 50 kmph Reduced 18% No cooling with continuous chime Fault Intervention Sr. No. | Telltale Indication Max. Speed Acceleration Gradability Cabin Cooling HV critical ON + Single 1 Chime. Limp home Telltale 50 kmph Reduced 20% No change blinking 2 |Limp home Telltale blinking 50 kmph Reduced 20% No change + single chime  Limp Home Condition of EV In situations when certain conditions in the vehicle are not met or when some fault arises in the vehicle, the vehicle control unit intervenes and puts the vehicle

or when some fault arises in the vehicle, the vehicle control unit intervenes and puts the vehicle into Limp Home Mode. The vehicle will give re- duced performance in these situations. These limp home interventions are defined on two levels which are provided in the table. @ NOTE There will be a single audio chime whenever the vehicle goes into Limp Home Intervention along with the IPC message. Sports mode cannot be se- lected if the vehicle SoC is below 25% or the vehicle is in limp home mode. If the vehicle is already in sports mode, it will automatically switch to drive mode. A message ‘Gear Shift not allowed’ will be displayed with an audio warning. When level 1 intervention takes place, the vehicle will not start in the next igni- tion cycle Limp Home Mode Telltale Warnings HV Critical Fault Contact TATA MOTORS EV Authorised Service Centre. Blinking HV Critical Fault Mobility is not allowed Contact TATA MOTORS EV Authorised Service Centre. Continu- ously ON Vehicle has en- tered

allowed Contact TATA MOTORS EV Authorised Service Centre. Continu- ously ON Vehicle has en- tered in Limp Home mode Continu- ously ON STARTING AND DRIVING DRIVE AND GEAR MODES Drive Modes (if equipped) ee ine Drive mode selection switch ‘ECO ‘, ‘CITY’ and ‘SPORT’ drive modes are provided. These modes can be used to adjust motor torque characteristics and vehicle performance in line with desired requirement. Drive mode selection switch is provided on center console for activation. 159  STARTING AND DRIVING Drive Mode CITY formance ncreased Motor Torque and Power output for BALANCED performance. Optimum Motor Torque and Power output for EFFICIENT performance. m | E> id: SPORT @NOTE When vehicle is in ECO or SPORT mode, by pressing current mode switch again, mode will switch to CITY mode. Driver can use maximum orque from Motor. 160 Gear Modes (if equipped) Neutral (N) The Gear knob is in ‘N’ gear position and ‘N’ will be indicated in Instrument Cluster. Drive Mode (D) The Gear knob is

‘N’ gear position and ‘N’ will be indicated in Instrument Cluster. Drive Mode (D) The Gear knob is in ‘D’ gear position and ‘D’ will be indicated in Instrument Cluster. Park (P) The Gear knob is in ‘P’ gear position and ‘P’ will be indicated in Instrument Cluster. When starting the vehicle or parking the vehicle. Apply the parking brake whenever the vehicle is to be parked. Reverse Gear(R) The Gear knob is in ‘R’ gear position and ‘R’ will be indicated in Instrument Cluster. Sport (S) The Gear knob is in ‘S’ gear position and ‘S’ will be indicated in Instrument Cluster.  OPERATING OF LIGHTS AND WIPERS Combi-switch (RH Stalk) a a Left Turn Signal Move the lever fully upward. Right Turn Signal Move the lever fully downward. @ NOTE When the turn is completed, the signal will cancel and the lever will return to its normal position. High Beam Move the lever forward to select the high beam function. Pull the lever back to nor- mal for low beam. High Beam Flash (Spring Return) To flash the

Pull the lever back to nor- mal for low beam. High Beam Flash (Spring Return) To flash the high beam, pull the lever to- wards you from the normal position. It will return to its normal position when you re- lease it. Headlamp Rotary Switch OFF Position All lamps will remain ‘OFF.’ Parking Lamp Rotate stalk to turn ‘ON’ the Parking re 20 Rotate stalk to turn ‘ON’ the Low Beam function. STARTING AND DRIVING Auto Light (if equipped) r 2 The headlights will be automatically switched ON depending on ambient light conditions (while entering a tunnel or when it is twilight). Day Time Running Lamps (DRL) (if equipped) Wi Day time Running Lamps (DRL) are used to in- crease the visibility of the vehicle to other drivers during daytime. 1. To activate and deactivate DRL, keep the ignition switch is ‘ON’ position and switch the parking lamp ON-OFF twice within approx. three seconds. 2. Activation and Deactivation of DRL can be done by DRL soft switch, which is avail- able on the Head Unit

and Deactivation of DRL can be done by DRL soft switch, which is avail- able on the Head Unit Display. Lane Change Signal (if equipped) To signal a lane change, move the lever slightly up or down to the point where the turn signal light begins to flash, but the 161  STARTING AND DRIVING ever does not latch. The turn signal wil lash six times automatically. Head Lamp Leveling Rotary Switch Inner rotary switch on right hand stalk is provided for head lamp leveling. With the inner rotary switch, Head lamp leveling can be done with head lamp in Low Beam and in ‘ON’ position. Select correct posi- ion before start of trip, when the vehicle is stationary. Depending on the number of passengers and luggage in the vehicle headlamp focus may change. This can be adjusted by rotating the knob to one of the hree level positions. 162 Combi-switch (LH Stalk) of OFF” Position The wiper is switched ‘OFF’. Intermittent Wipe Push the stalk upwards to oper- ate intermittent wipe. Inner rotary switch on

Intermittent Wipe Push the stalk upwards to oper- ate intermittent wipe. Inner rotary switch on left hand stalk is provided for intermittent front wiper delay. The switch has five delay timers. Slow Wipe Push the stalk towards position (2) for con- tinuous slow wipe. Fast Wipe Push the stalk towards position (3) for con- tinuous slow wipe. Flick Wipe (Spring Return) Pull the stalk downwards and hold it for continuous wipe, Ww the wiper continuously wipes across the windshield at low speed till the stalk is released. Front Windshield Washer + Pull the lever little longer, o spray the washer fluid on the windshield. «The windshield wipers will operate for hree cycles after the lever is released and for one more cycle after five sec- onds. Manual Mode (if equipped) * Pull the lever little longer, to spray the washer fluid on the windshield. * The windshield wipers will operate for hree cycles after the lever is released and for one more cycle after five sec-  onds. Auto Mode (if

hree cycles after the lever is released and for one more cycle after five sec-  onds. Auto Mode (if equipped)) If your vehicle is fitted with rain sensor, the wipers will automatically wipe the wind- screen, if it senses rainfall. Make sure that the wiper stalk is in Auto position. @ NOTE When you start the vehicle, the supply to washer motor is momentarily cut off. STARTING AND DRIVING Rear Wash and Wipe (if equipped) Horn Rain/light Sensor (if equipped) Horn is located on steering wheel. Use it The integrated rain and light sensor is whenever required. mounted on front windshield glass to A\ WARNING sense rain and light. As per the input from sensor, the wipe and light functions will Check out for No Horn zone, where use of horn is prohibited. work automatically. 163  STARTING AND DRIVING SEATS ADJUSTMENTS First Row Seats Adjustments Driver Seat Manual Adjustments Following seat adjustments can be carried out manually. 1. Driver Seat Backrest Angle Adjustment 2. Driver Seat height

can be carried out manually. 1. Driver Seat Backrest Angle Adjustment 2. Driver Seat height adjustment 3. Driver Seat forward/backward adjust- ment lever 164 WARNING Do not adjust the driver’s seat while driving. Adjusting the seat while driving could cause the driver to lose control of the vehicle. 1. Driver Seat Backrest Angle Adjust- ment To change the seat back rest angle, lean forward slightly and pull up the lever (1). Adjust seat backrest until it reaches de- sired comfortable position. Make sure that lever returns to its original position and seat is securely latched. Adjust the seat backrest until your arms are slightly angled when holding the steering wheel. A\ WARNING Never travel in a moving vehicle with the seat backrest in an excessively re- clined position as this can be danger ous. You could slide under the seat belt in a collision. 2. Driver Seat height adjustment To raise the seat, pull and continue pump- ing the lever (2) in the upward direction until the seat is at

the seat, pull and continue pump- ing the lever (2) in the upward direction until the seat is at the desired height. To lower the seat, pump the lever downward until the seat is at desired height. 3. Driver forward / backward adjust- ment Lift lever (3) and slide the seat forwards or rearwards. Release lever and make sure that seat is securely latched. @ NOTE Adjust the driver seat position in such a way that the driver will be able to oper- ate the control pedals conformably.  Co-driver Seat Manual Adjustments 1. Seat Backrest Angle Adjustment 2. Seat forward/backward adjustmen lever ZX WARNING Do not adjust the driver’s seat while driving. Adjusting the seat while driving could cause the driver to lose control of the vehicle. 1. Seat Backrest Angle Adjustment Similar to driver seat, to change the seat back rest angle, lean forward slightly and pull up the lever (1). Adjust seat backrest until it reaches desired comfortable posi- tion. Make sure that lever returns to its original

until it reaches desired comfortable posi- tion. Make sure that lever returns to its original position and seat is securely latched. 2. Seat forward / backward adjust- ment Similar to driver seat, lift lever (2) and slide the seat forwards or rearwards. Release lever and make sure that seat is securely latched. STARTING AND DRIVING Seat Ventilation To start ventilation, press button once. It has 3 ventilation adjustment in decreas- ing order and LED glows for each press. To Stop the ventilation long press the but- ion for few seconds. Default setting is highest speed on first press. The ventilated seat by default is set to OFF whenever the vehicle START/STOP button is turned on. 165  STARTING AND DRIVING gy wl wi we iD Low Do not apply excessive force on venti- lation button as it may get damaged. Button operates with slight finger force as they are electronically controlled. 166 To protect ventilated seats- + Use the air ventilation seat ONLY when the vehicle HVAC system is on. +

protect ventilated seats- + Use the air ventilation seat ONLY when the vehicle HVAC system is on. + Never use a liquids like alcohol, high viscosity oils or other to spill on venti- lated seats. Avoid spillage of liquids on the venti- lated seats surface this may lead to blockage of ventilated seat system and may not function properly. ¢ Do not add seat covers, as it will not allow ventilated seats to function prop- erly. + Donot keep plastic covers of seat as it is, as it will not allow ventilated seats to function properly. Ventilated seats to be vacuum cleaned regularly as there are chances of air vent hole blockage after usage. MIRRORS Inside Rear View Mirrors (IRVM) 4 > To adjust the mirror move the mirror up, down or sideways manually to obtain the best rear view. When you drive at night, set the selector tab to select anti-glare mode (if equipped) to reduce glare from the headlights of ve- hicles behind you.  Use antiglare position only when neces- Sary, as it reduces rear view

of ve- hicles behind you.  Use antiglare position only when neces- Sary, as it reduces rear view clarity. Automatic Dimming IRVM (if equipped) 1. Photocell Sensors 2. ON/OFF button Automatic dimming rear view mirror auto- matically controls the glare from the head- lights of the car behind you in night time or low light driving conditions. Press ON/OFF button to turn ON the automatic dimming function. The LED indicator on the IRVM shows the active status of auto dimming function. The auto dimming IRVM is defaults to the ON position whenever the ignition switch is turned ON and it is switched OFF when- ever reverse gear is engaged. For proper operation, keep the photo- cell sensors clean and do not cover the area between the IRVM and the wind- shield. STARTING AND DRIVING Outer Rear View Mirrors (ORVM) Motorized ORVM Adjustment (if equipped) The switch to adjust the motorized mirrors is located on the driver’s door. You can ad- just the mirrors when the ignition switch is in the “ACC”

located on the driver’s door. You can ad- just the mirrors when the ignition switch is in the “ACC” or “ON” position. 167  STARTING AND DRIVING To adjust the Mirror 1. Move the mirror selection switch to L (for left side) and R (for right side) to select the mirror you wish to adjust. 2. Use the four positions of the knob to adjust the rear view mirrors to required position. 168 ORVM Folding Option 1: Manual Folding ORVMs can be folded or unfolded manu- ally. This is applicable only for vehicles which are not equipped with motorized folding provision. Option 2: Auto folding by Smart Key When you lock the vehicle, ORVMs will be folded automatically. When you unlock the vehicle, ORVMs wil be unfolded automatically. n case to repeated usage, Mirror Folding/Unfolding will stop functioning and will be re-activated after delay of 2 mins. During that period avoid repeated pressing of Switch.  Option 3: Auto Folding by Knob To fold / unfold the ORVMs, keep the Se- lector switch in center

Option 3: Auto Folding by Knob To fold / unfold the ORVMs, keep the Se- lector switch in center position (i.e. neither ‘L’ nor ‘R, position) and then toggle down. This will operate when the ignition switch is in the “ACC” or “ON” position. Sun Visors The sun visors can be pulled down to block the glare coming through the wind- shield. To block the glare from side win- dows, pull down the sun visor and release it from retainer. Swing the sun visor to the side. Vanity Mirror (if equipped) Vanity mirror is provided on the back of the front passenger side sun visor. STARTING AND DRIVING DRIVING SUPPORT SYSTEM Electronic Parking Brake (EPB) (if equipped) EPB switch is located behind the gear shift knob EPB is applied by pulling up the EPB switch and can be released by pushing down the EPB switch which needs the ve- hicle to be at ignition ON condition. Always ensure parking brake is released and parking brake warning lamp is OFF before start of the drive. Park brake warning lamp in

and parking brake warning lamp is OFF before start of the drive. Park brake warning lamp in cluster at vehicle running condition indi- cates failure in brake system needs to be 169  STARTING AND DRIVING checked with TATA MOTORS EV Autho- rised Service Centre and vehicle needs extreme precaution until you reach TATA MOTORS EV Authorised Service Centre @ NOTE Apply the parking brake properly before leaving the vehicle and release it before moving. How to Apply Depress the Brake pedal & Pull EPB switch upward. Kindly ensure EPB indication turns on in the Cluster. EPB will be applied auto- matically if vehicle is turned off and Gear lever is engaged to park position. During parking the vehicle on Steep in- cline or trailer is attached, kindly ensure EPB can hold the vehicle before leav- ing. WARNING Do not use parking brake in vehicle dur- ing running condition except for emer- gency situations like service brake failure. It will affect the entire brake sys- tem. If the EPB fails to

like service brake failure. It will affect the entire brake sys- tem. If the EPB fails to apply, prevent vehicle movement by blocking the rear wheels. How to Release EPB will be released only if you press the EPB switch along with Ignition is on or ve- hicle is running. & Brake pedal is de- pressed. Kindly ensure parking brake indication in instrument cluster is turned off after EPB is released EPB Getting Released Automatically The following steps to be followed for EPB auto release: 1. Vehicle READY condition 2. Driver door closed & seat belt buckled 3. Gear shift knob in D/R mode 4. Press ACC pedal to drive away Manual Parking Break (if equipped) Mechanical parking brake acting on the rear wheels is provided on the vehicle. ge zz To apply the parking brake, pull the lever up fully. The parking brakes’ tell-tale ligh comes on in the instrument cluster.  To release it, press the release button (1) and push the lever down (2). Parking brakes tell-tale on the instrument cluster will

button (1) and push the lever down (2). Parking brakes tell-tale on the instrument cluster will turn ‘OFF’ when the lever is fully re- leased. @ NOTE Apply the parking brake properly before leaving the vehicle and release it before moving. Ensure Before You Park Park the vehicle in a safe place. Switch on the indicator signal before turning to park. Apply the parking brake. Make sure that all window glasses are closed and all lamps are turned ‘OFF’. At night, put on the parking lights if re- quired. Remove the key from the ignition STARTING AND DRIVING a risk of an accident and injury. NOTE Do not use parking brake for braking unless unavoidable circumstances like when service brake is not working prop- erly. The braking distance is consider- ably longer and the wheels could lock. There is an increased danger of skid- ding and accidents. switch and lock the vehicle. + Use wheel chocks if the vehicle is parked on a slope. When parking on a downhill gradient, place the gear lever in

if the vehicle is parked on a slope. When parking on a downhill gradient, place the gear lever in ‘Reverse’ posi- tion. While parking on uphill gradient, place the gear lever in the ‘1st’ position. @ NOTE Never leave children unsupervised in the parked vehicle. They could also op- erate the vehicle’s equipment. There is 171  STARTING AND DRIVING Surround View System (SVS) Surround view system displays the sur- roundings around the vehicle to the driver for safe and comfortable drive. SVS assists the driver while reversing and maneuvering the vehicle at lower speeds. Camera Locations As Shown In The Im- ages Left Side Camera Rear Camera Front Camera Right Side Camera 172  Activation Of SVS The function is activated when: 1. Surround view soft switch is pressed on Fascia switch 2. Surround view soft switch is pressed on Head unit. 3. The shift lever is in D (Drive), N (Neu- tral) or R (Reverse) and vehicle speed is under 17 kmph and surround view soft switch is pressed. . Engage the

(Reverse) and vehicle speed is under 17 kmph and surround view soft switch is pressed. . Engage the reverse gear and vehicle speed is below 17 kmph. STARTING AND DRIVING Deactivation Of SVS SVS function is deactivated when one of the following step is performed. 1. 2. 3. Surround view soft switch is pressed again Vehicle speed is more than 17 kmph Disengage the reverse gear @ NOTE When vehicle speed is more than 17 kmph, the SVS function will turn off. The function will not automati- cally turn on again, even though ve- hicle speed gets below 17 kmph. Press the switch again, to turn on the function. When vehicle speed is more than 17 Kmph SVS screen will be switch to only rear view during reverse gear. During vehicle speed is more than 17 Kmph and driver activate through soft switch/hard switch rear view shall display to user. 173  STARTING AND DRIVING Surround View System Features The Surround view system has the follow- ing features 1. 2D View 3D View Front Corner View Rear Corner

Surround view system has the follow- ing features 1. 2D View 3D View Front Corner View Rear Corner View Full View Settings NQOaPond Cancel Icon 2D View By selecting 2D Icon which is available on the right corner side of the infotainment screen, cameras provide about 360 de- gree 2D top view of vehicle’s surrounding. In 2D top view mode 4 camera icons will be present around the model car image to switch to different sides of view. The differ- ent 2D views are as follows. |. 2D Top view + Front view Il. 2D Top view + Rear view Ill. 2D Top view + Left view IV. 2D Top view + Right view 174 2D Top + Left view 2D Top + Right view  3D View By selecting 3D Icon, cameras provide about 360 degree 3D view of vehicle’s sur- rounding on the Infotainment screen n 3D mode view 8 camera icons will be present around the model car image to switch to different angle of view. 3D view with 8 different views Front Corner View f driver wants to focus on the front corner view, then the icon can be pressed to

Front Corner View f driver wants to focus on the front corner view, then the icon can be pressed to se- lect the view. By selecting front corner view icon, cam- era provides a focused view on the front left and right corners to provide a better visibility for safe maneuver. Park Brake engaged p ] Fig 3. Front corner view If driver wants to focus on the rear corner view, then the icon can be pressed to se- lect the view. By selecting rear corner view icon, camera provides a focused view on the rear left and right corners to provide a better visi- bility for safe maneuver. Rear Corner View If driver wants to focus on the rear corner view, then the icon can be pressed to se- lect the view. By selecting rear corner view icon, camera provides a focused view on the rear left and right corners to provide a better visi- bility for safe maneuver. STARTING AND DRIVING Fig 4. Rear corner view 175  STARTING AND DRIVING Full View |. 2D Full front view By selecting 2D front view Icon which is

175  STARTING AND DRIVING Full View |. 2D Full front view By selecting 2D front view Icon which is available on the model car image, cam- eras provides about wide 2D front view of vehicle’s surrounding on the Infotainment screen. Press full view button to view front objects closer and press the same button to go back to the normal 2D front view. 2D Full Front view Il. 2D Full Rear view By selecting 2D rear view Icon which is available on the model car image, cam- eras provides about wide 2D view of vehi- cle’s surrounding on the Infotainment screen. Press full view button to view rear objects closer and press the same button to go 176 back to the normal 2D rear view. 2D Full Rear View Ill. 2D Full Left view By selecting 2D left view Icon which is available on the model car image, cam- eras provides about wide 2D view of vehi- cle’s surrounding on the Infotainment screen. Press full view button to view left objects closer and press the same button to go back to the normal 2D left view.

button to view left objects closer and press the same button to go back to the normal 2D left view. as 2D Full left view IV. 2D Full Right view By selecting 2D right view Icon which is available on the model car image, cam- eras provides about wide 2D view of vehi- cle’s surrounding on the Infotainment screen. Press full view button to view right objects closer and press the same button to go back to the normal 2D right view. 2D Full Right view  Settings + Byselecting the settings icon available on the infotainment screen, driver can change the settings as required. « User can change the content settings based on the user choice. « User can change the front and rear de- fault view to any of the view i.e., either normal view or top view SVS front view default mode settings SVS rear view default mode settings Cancel Icon By selecting the cancel icon which is avail- able on the top right corner of the infotain- ment screen, user can exit from the surround view system function. t can be

corner of the infotain- ment screen, user can exit from the surround view system function. t can be used for all the SVS features such as 2D, 3D, front & rear corner views. it cannot be visible when vehicle gear state is reverse gear. STARTING AND DRIVING Understanding Guidelines Indication Static Guidelines — Red Line Indicates, if rear objects are in this colored zone, you have to stop the vehicle and not allowed to go backward. If you _ still go backward, your vehicle will hit the object. 177  STARTING AND DRIVING Yellow Line Indicates, if rear objects are in this colored zone, you have to take utmost care. How- ever, objects fall in this zone, may not hit vehicle. Green Line Indicates, if rear object is in this colored zone, you have to be cautious. Still you can go backward safely. 178 PDC Guidelines Settings User can change the timer settings for PDC guidelines which is available on the infotainment display By selecting the infotainment settings icon available on the

available on the infotainment display By selecting the infotainment settings icon available on the infotainment screen use able to open the settings options available in the system. The system will display the below screen when user select the settings icon. Select the driver assistance icon which is avail- able on the screen. n driver assistance system will provide many other options in that user should se- lect the park assist delay timer. System will provide three different option such as Osec, 5 sec and 10sec. Based on the user choice he/she can se- lect any option from the three. Blind View Monitor Blind view monitor will helps to reduce the crashes that happens when driver is being overtaken or changing the lanes. This system should work in ignition on and run condition irrespective of the vehicle  STARTING AND DRIVING * On activating the left turn indicator, left We can enable/disable the blind view monitor in HMI settings based on the user choice. speed. Activation Of Blind

the blind view monitor in HMI settings based on the user choice. speed. Activation Of Blind View Monitor * This feature is activated when user turn on the left/right turn indicator. * On activating the right turn indicator, right side rear view should be dis- played on the infotainment along with static overlays. AS RIGHT VIEW a ame Right rear side view when turn on the right indicator side rear view should be displayed on infotainment along with the static over- lays. Left rear side view when turn on the left in- dicator Deactivation Of Blind View Monitor This feature is deactivated when user turn off the left/right turn indicator. Understanding Static Overlays Indica- tion Red Line: Indicates, if rear objects are be- hind this colored line, you are not allowed to change the lane. If you still change the lane, your vehicle will hit the object. Yellow Line: Indicates, if rear objects are behind this colored line, you have to take utmost care. However, objects fall in this zone, may

are behind this colored line, you have to take utmost care. However, objects fall in this zone, may not hit vehicle. Green Line: Indicates, if rear object is be- hind this colored line, you have to be cau- tious. Still you can safely change the lane. @ NOTE * When SVS is in active condition then user turn on the left/right turn indicator then system should display the blind view monitoring and if user turn off the turn indicator then sys- tem return back to the SVS screen. ¢ When SVS is not in active condition, user turn on the left/right turn indica- tor then system should display the blind view monitoring. Once user turn off the turn indicator then sys- tem return back to infotainment home screen. 179  STARTING AND DRIVING Camera Precaution AX WARNING 180 As the camera is, IP protected, do not detach, disassemble or modify in any manner from the actual posi- tion. This will show required visua information in display. Do not use camera when tailgate is open. If tailgate is open,

visua information in display. Do not use camera when tailgate is open. If tailgate is open, visual infor- mation may not be the actual rear view of the vehicle & system wil warn with message ‘Tail Gate Open, Please close. Do not use camera when driver/pas- senger door is open. If any one o1 the door is open, visual information may not be the actual view of the vehicle & system will warn with mes- sage ‘Door Open, Please close’. And also corresponding door side display shall be in dark image. Do not use camera when ORVM is folded. If ORVM is folded, visual in- formation may not be the actual view of the vehicle & system will warn with message ‘ORVM Folded’. When the camera is operated under fluorescent lights, sodium light or mercury light etc., illuminated areas on the lens may appear to flicker in the display. Do not attach any advertisement or styling or any kind of stickers on top of camera. If this happens, camera cannot provide you the visual image and may damage camera. Do not

camera. If this happens, camera cannot provide you the visual image and may damage camera. Do not add any accessory, which will obstruct camera field of view. Rear View Camera Rear View Camera is a visual reverse guiding system. When reversing or park- ing, make sure that there are no persons, animals or objects in the area where you are reversing. The display will be shown on the infotain- ment screen.  Activation Reverse gear This system will start, if reverse gear is en- gaged, or park assist button (if equipped) is pressed or manual activation is done through Infotainment screen. Deactivation System will stop, if reverse gear is disen- gaged, or park assist button (if equipped) is pressed. If started through infotainment, the system can be stopped using a cross button on in- fotainment screen. Understanding Guidelines Indication A Please Reverse Carefully ! — — -_ Static guidelines A Please Reverse Carefully.! — — — lS X. Dynamic guidelines Green Line You can safely reverse the

A Please Reverse Carefully.! — — — lS X. Dynamic guidelines Green Line You can safely reverse the vehicle, but be cautious if objects fall in this zone. STARTING AND DRIVING Yellow Line You have to take utmost care if objects fall in this zone. However, the objects may not hit vehicle. Red Line Red line indicates that you have to stop re- versing the vehicle. If you still go back- wards, the car will hit the obstacle. Do’s And Don’ts * Do not use camera when tailgate is open. If tailgate is open, visual infor- mation may not be the actual rear view of the vehicle & system will warn with message ‘Tail Gate Open, Please close. * When the camera is operated under fluorescent lights, sodium light or mer- cury light etc., illuminated areas on the lens may appear to flicker in the dis- play. * Do not attach any advertisement or styling or any kind of stickers on top of camera. If this happens, camera can- not provide you the visual image and it may damage the camera. 181  STARTING AND

camera can- not provide you the visual image and it may damage the camera. 181  STARTING AND DRIVING + Do not add any accessory, which will cause blockage to the camera’s field of view. Rear View Camera System Precautions Area Displaed on Screen The rear view camera system displays an image of the view from the bumper of the rear area of the vehicle. 182 Corners of bumper The area displayed on the screen may vary according to vehicle orientation conditions. Objects, which are close to either cor- ner of the bumper or under the bumper, cannot be seen on the screen. The camera uses a special lens. The distance of the image that appears on the screen differs from the actual dis- tance. The camera may not display items that are located higher than the camera’s field of view. When sharp up gradient behind the vehicle  The distance guidelines will appear to be closer to the vehicle than the actual dis- tance. Because of this, objects will appear to be farther away than they actually are. In

dis- tance. Because of this, objects will appear to be farther away than they actually are. In the same way, there will be a margin of error between the guidelines and the ac- tual distance/course on the road. When sharp down gradient behind the vehicle The distance guidelines will appear to be further from the vehicle than the ac- tual distance. Because of this, objects will appear to be closer than they actually are. In the same way, there will be a margin of error between the guidelines and the actual distance/course on the road. STARTING AND DRIVING When any part of the vehicle sags A margin of error When any part of the vehicle sags due to he number of passengers or the distribu- ion of the load, there is a margin of error between the fixed guide lines on the screen and the actual distance/course on he road. When approaching sional objects three-dimen- The distance guidelines are displayed ac- cording to flat surfaced objects (such as the road). It is not possible to determine

displayed ac- cording to flat surfaced objects (such as the road). It is not possible to determine the position of three-dimensional objects 183  STARTING AND DRIVING (such as vehicles) using the distance guidelines. When approaching a three-di- mensional object. Distance guidelines 184 Visually check the surroundings and the area behind the vehicle. On the screen, i appears that a truck is parked at point B. However, in reality if you back up to poin A, you will hit the truck. On the screen, i appears that Ais closest and C is furthes' away. However, in reality, the distance to Aand C is the same, and B is further away from A and C. Vehicle width guidelines  Visually check the surroundings and the area behind the vehicle. In the case shown below, the truck appears to be outside of the vehicle width guidelines and the vehi- cle does not look as if it hits the truck. However, the rear body of the truck may actually cross over the vehicle width guidelines. In reality if you back up as

of the truck may actually cross over the vehicle width guidelines. In reality if you back up as guided by the vehicle width guidelines, the vehicle may hit the truck. Park Assist System (Front and Rear) Park Assist System is an electronic park- ing aid that assist you to park vehicle safely when in reverse gear mode. It also provides front part assist (if equipped) if your vehicle speed is below 10Kmph and Front part assist option is enabled through infotainment screen. It provides audio, visual information through vehicle infotainment system. Se- lect this feature in infotainment display to see any obstacle behind/front of the vehi- cle. The system also displays the Park assist screen when the reverse gear is engaged. A\ WARNING 0 to 25 cm obstacle detection perform- ance is not guaranteed due to ultrasonic sensor technology limitation. Variant where infotainment display is not present and audio warning is given through a buzzer, on activating the Park Assist system, a tone will be

and audio warning is given through a buzzer, on activating the Park Assist system, a tone will be played within first two seconds to indicate the proper functioning of the system. After these two seconds, normal functioning of the system will continue. If no tone is heard for first two seconds, it shall mean that Park Assist System is faulty. The owner should, in that case, go to the nearest dealer for rectifica- tion. STARTING AND DRIVING Front Park Assist System (FPAS) (if Equipped) Activation Conditions 1. Front park assist option can be enabled hrough Infotainment screen. Go to set- ings Select Driver Assistance 185  STARTING AND DRIVING 2. If reverse gear is engaged and Front park assist option is enabled through info- tainment screen. 3. If user has turned ON Low speed acti- vation from user settings menu and vehi- cle speed is below 10 kmph (Forward Direction) and some object is detected in the front of the vehicle then audio warning for 10 sec will sound, while the visual

is detected in the front of the vehicle then audio warning for 10 sec will sound, while the visual warning will continue to be shown till the object is present. 186 Deactivation Condition 1. System will stop, if reverse gear is dis- engaged. 2. If vehicle is speed is above 10Kmph. 3. If started through infotainment, the sys- tem can be stopped using a Front Park Assist option on infotainment screen. Approx. Distance Range Visual Audible In- From Warning formation Bumper (in cm) 25-30 | Red Zone |Continuous Beep 31-60 | Yellow Zone | Fast Beep 61-100 | Green Zone | Slow Beep Reverse Park Assist System (RPAS) Activation Condition This system will start, if reverse gear is en- gaged, or park assist button (if equipped) is pressed or manual activation is done through Infotainment screen. Deactivation Condition System will stop, if reverse gear is disen- gaged, or park assist button (if equipped) is pressed. If started through infotainment, the system can be stopped using a cross button on

is pressed. If started through infotainment, the system can be stopped using a cross button on in- fotainment screen.  Approx. Dis- tance Range Audible Informa- From Bumper (in tion Continuous Beep Fast Beep Slow Beep NOTE Audio warning may come from Infotain- ment system speaker or through Buzzer, depending on vehicle model and configuration. Park Assist System Limitations Park Assist system is not a collision avoid- ing system. It is solely the driver’s respon- sibility to park the vehicle safely. Park Assist feature works on ultra sound echo technology, due to which perform- ance is not guaranteed in following sce- narios: * If the object has a sharp edge surface, where surface may divert echoes from sensor reception. If object is mesh fence made up of thin wires, where echoes can’t be given by the surface. Fast moving objects passes in the sen- sor’s field of detection, where echoes are not processed by the system. If object is made/covered by foam or sponge or snow where

echoes are not processed by the system. If object is made/covered by foam or sponge or snow where ultrasonic sound signals are absorbed. Objects close to the rear bumper can go undetected by the Reverse Park Assist’s field of detection. Driver should use extreme caution while parking the vehicle. If height of the bumper is changed due to alteration to the suspension or other causes. If the sensor areas are extremely hot from direct sunlight or cold due to freezing weather. If Sensors are covered by a hand, sticker, accessory, etc. If ultrasonic noise is present around Vehicle due to other vehicle sensors, STARTING AND DRIVING horn, engine, air braking sys-tem (large vehicles), Exhaust Fans, Wire- less transmitters or mobile phones. + If the vehicle speed exceeds 10kmph, the system will not warn you even though objects are detected, error message ‘Vehicle Speed is high, drive slowly!’ will appear. + Driving on uneven road surfaces e.g. Gravel, unpaved roads, Artificial Speed Breakers,

appear. + Driving on uneven road surfaces e.g. Gravel, unpaved roads, Artificial Speed Breakers, or gradient. + Poles of square/rectangular cross sec- tion might not be detected due to the ultrasonic technology limitation. + If trailer is connected. A\ WARNING Due to any reason, if the sensor gets misaligned or loses its intended fitment position, contact your dealer for refit- ment. 187  STARTING AND DRIVING @ NOTE Turning the ignition ‘OFF’ ‘while the park assist feature is active would disable it. Parking sensor performance may affect in case use of unauthorized registration plate. Use RTO authorized size regis- tration plate only. High security registra- tion plate dimension in mm — 500 x 120 (Approx). Park Assist System Preventive Mainte- nance/cleaning 1. Regularly clean the sensors and keep them free from dust, ice, mud, water, chewing gum etc. for proper working of the system. Use a smooth cloth for cleaning. Do not use water at high pressure for cleaning the sensor. Do not

Use a smooth cloth for cleaning. Do not use water at high pressure for cleaning the sensor. Do not cover the sensors. This will in- terrupt park assist performance. N » a Do not remove mud, snow on the sen- 188 sors using stick or hard material. Use normal water and soft cloth. Park Assist Malfunction Indications In case of park assist system malfunc- tions, fault screen may appear on the info- tainment system. Reason for this fault may be 1. Body Control Module Failure 2. Sensor Malfunction 3. Partner components such as Infotain- ment music system, Instrument Clus- ter failure AUTOMATIC VEHICLE HOLD (if equipped) AVH holds the brakes once vehicle speed reaches zero at traffic lights or a junction, thus avoids unintended vehicle rolling. Once activated through AVH switch Auto- matic Vehicle Hold maintains brake force even after you release the Brake Pedal. You can then release the brake pedal and remain stopped, even on a hill. To disengage AVH, press the accelerator pedal  How to

pedal and remain stopped, even on a hill. To disengage AVH, press the accelerator pedal  How to Apply 1. Depress the Brake pedal. 2. Ensure seatbelt is fasten and driver's door is closed. 3. Press AVH switch. 4. Auto Hold indication turns on in the Cluster which indicates AVH is turned ON and in Standby mode. 5. When the vehicle reaches the stand- still condition though brake pedal is re- leased AVH holds the vehicle and AVH indication changes the color from white to green. AVH will be released when accelerator pedal is depressed in R (Reverse), D (Drive). @ NOTE + When the vehicle is turned off keep- ing the Auto Vehicle Hold in the ON condition, Auto Vehicle Hold will gets released and EPB will get au- tomatically applied. For safety, for smooth take off de- press the accelerator pedal slowly when the AVH is active. STARTING AND DRIVING Vehicle Hold Warning Indicator AVH indication and warning lamps turns ON (white which will appear on the cluster is provided below. AUTO HOLD AVH

and warning lamps turns ON (white which will appear on the cluster is provided below. AUTO HOLD AVH indication ON AVH active indication (Green color) AVH failure indication (Amber color) How to Disengage AVH In Ignition ON Condition depress the Auto hold switch the Auto Hold indication in white color will disappear from the cluster indicating AVH is turned off. AVH once turned ON will not be turned off 189  STARTING AND DRIVING automatically until it is deselected by switch input from user. @ NOTE Auto hold function will not become ac- tive if * Driver Seat bet is not buckled. + Driver Door is not closed properly. + APB is in applied condition. For end user safety Auto hold will shift au- tomatically to EPB in below conditions: 1. Vehicle is in standstill for more than 3 minutes. 2. Gear leaver shift from any of Drive (D), Reverse(R) to Park (P) Position for AT Transmission vehicles. 3. If you turn off the vehicle/Ignition in standstill condition. 4. Vehicle is standing on steep

3. If you turn off the vehicle/Ignition in standstill condition. 4. Vehicle is standing on steep slope. In above conditions AVH indication will change from Green to white and APB in- dication will turn on in the cluster. 190 AX WARNING If any abnormality is present in the sys- tem, AVH malfunction lamp in amber colour will glow which is amber in colour. Kindly do the ignition latch of 30 seconds and check if the same behav- ior is there. If the Malfunction lamp is still there, get your parking brake sys- tem checked with the TATA MOTORS EV Authorised Service Centre.  INTERIOR AND EXTERIOR FEATURES CLIMATE CONTROL Air Distribution The Climate Control regulates the temperature inside the vehicle and filter the dust particles in cabin based on the user set temperature settings. The air is distributed through the vents in the passenger compartment as shown below: 191  INTERIOR AND EXTERIOR FEATURES Air Vents Dashboard Side And Front Centre Vent Air vents are available on the dashboard.

FEATURES Air Vents Dashboard Side And Front Centre Vent Air vents are available on the dashboard. The direction of air flow can be adjusted using sliders on the respective vents. Dashboard Side Vent 192 Front Center Vent FULLY AUTOMATIC TEMPERA- TURE CONTROL (FATC) (if equipped) FATC system controls the in-cabin temper- ature of the vehicle automatically and pro- vides maximum passenger convenience regardless of outside weather conditions. Display Unit + a . 212% e . AC ON/OFF Blower speed control toggle switch Maximum defrost PON > Rear window demister  5. Fresh air / recirculation 6. Air distribution (mode) 7. OFF mode 8. Auto ON selection 9 1 . Temperature control toggle switch 0. In car Sensor Display Screen FATC display is shown on main display screen. FATC functions can be controlled using both the FATC control panel and the touch screen display. Whenever the user selects any switch or moves the toggle switch, then the display unit will show the relevant climate Informa- tion.

or moves the toggle switch, then the display unit will show the relevant climate Informa- tion. INTERIOR AND EXTERIOR FEATURES Also, when the display is not in climate mode then climate information will be displayed on the all time display available on the top bar and widget. AC ON / OFF Select the AC ON/OFF switch to turn the air conditioning ON or OFF. The AC icon activated on the display when the AC is ON. Blower Speed Control Toggle Switch Move toggle switch up & down to increase & decrease the blower speed. Max Defrost MAX W 1. It directs the main airflow towards windscreen for faster defrosting. (It also overrides any mode selection you may have made). 2. When you turn off the maximum de- frost, the system returns to its former settings. NOTE For your safety make sure you have a clear view through all the windows be- fore driving. Rear Window Demister REAR iy] Select the rear window demister switch to turn it ON or OFF. The system will be de- activated after 15 min of continuous

demister switch to turn it ON or OFF. The system will be de- activated after 15 min of continuous oper- ation. 193  INTERIOR AND EXTERIOR FEATURES Fresh Air / Recirculation HD 1. When the recirculation switch is turned ON, air from the vehicle’s inte- rior is sent throughout the system. 2. When the recirculation switch is turned OFF, air from outside enters into the cabin (fresh mode). Whenever discomfort is felt, switch to fresh air mode. @ NOTE The outside air intakes for the climate control systems are at the base of wind- screen. Keep this area clear from leaves and other debris. Use recirculation mode for faster heating and cooling. However, keeping the system in recirculation mode - particularly when the AC is in OFF - can cause fogging of windows. Air Distribution (mode) In AUTO mode, the FATC system will reg- ulate the mode automatically. However, user override is possible with the use of MODE switch to select the desired airflow mode. Each time you select the MODE switch, he

the use of MODE switch to select the desired airflow mode. Each time you select the MODE switch, he display shows the mode selected. » »/Directs air through the center and 1 | side air vents <> ¢| Directs air through the center, side "| and foot well vents ¢|Directs air through the foot well air 21 | vents Directs air through the defroster eo & foot well vents (Default fresh air mode) Directs air through the defroster vents (Default fresh air mode) OFF Mode Select the OFF switch to turn the system ‘OFF’. OFF will be displayed on the info- tainment screen. Auto ON Selection Button To put the automatic climate control in fully automatic mode: 1. Select the ‘AUTO’ switch. 2. Set the desired temperature by toggle switch. The display will show all the functions during ‘AUTO’ mode. 3. The system automatically selects the proper mix of conditioned and / or heated air that will, as quickly as pos- sible, raise or lower the interior temper- ature to your preference. 4. When you set the

as pos- sible, raise or lower the interior temper- ature to your preference. 4. When you set the temperature to its lower limit (LO) or its upper limit (HI), 194  the system runs at full cooling or heat- ing only. It does not regulate the inte- rior temperature. @ NOTE In ‘AUTO’ mode, the FATC system will regulate the blower speed automati- cally. Semi-automatic Operation You can manually select various functions of the climate control system when it is in fully automatic mode. All other features re- main automatically controlled. Making any manual selection causes the word ‘AUTO’ in the display to go OFF and the overrid- den setting is displayed. System will re- main in semiautomatic mode till ‘AUTO’ is selected again. INTERIOR AND EXTERIOR FEATURES Temperature control toggle switch Move the temperature control toggle switch up to increases the temperature of the air. The desired temperature will be in- creased by steps of 0.5°C. User can select temperature range from 18°C to 30°C.

will be in- creased by steps of 0.5°C. User can select temperature range from 18°C to 30°C. Move the toggle switch down to reduce the temperature. When you set the temperature to its lower limit (LO) or its upper limit (HI), the system runs at full cooling or heating only. It does- n't regulate the interior temperature. 195  INTERIOR AND EXTERIOR FEATURES FATC Sensors Option II Solar Sensor FATC system is fitted with three sensors. (if equipped) Solar sensor is on the top of the dash- board at the right hand side of defroster grill. Option | 196  Outside Ambient Temperature (OAT) Sensor Outside Ambient Temperature (OAT) sen- sor located under the front bumper grill. INTERIOR AND EXTERIOR FEATURES In-car Sensor On Control Panel In-car sensor is located on FATC control panel. @ NOTE Do not cover or spill any liquid on sensors. Do not cover sensor, this may cause the sensor to malfunction. This may lead to FATC not function- ing to desired level. CABIN AIR PURIFICATION The Climate

This may lead to FATC not function- ing to desired level. CABIN AIR PURIFICATION The Climate Control System fitted with ad- vance filter for cabin air purification. @ NOTE + Replace the Filter as per Mainte- nance schedule. More frequent filter replacement are required/ recom- mended in case of vehicle is driven in heavy dusty conditions. If the ve- hicle is driven in heavy dusty condi- tions more frequent filter replacement are required. Replace the filter if you find poor ventilation, cooling or Demisting and poor Air Quality Index (AQI). Air Quality Index : (If equipped) * Climate control system fitted with FATC calculates Air Quality Index (AQI) of cabin using PM2.5 AQI Index. + FATC System in AUTO Mode automat- ically sets the blower speed and switches to recirculation air mode to improve AQI inside the cabin. * The calculated AQI is displayed on dis- 197  INTERIOR AND EXTERIOR FEATURES play unit along with severity index. NOTE * AQI calculation will be effective after 30secs ,

play unit along with severity index. NOTE * AQI calculation will be effective after 30secs , ignition ON and no value will be displayed during this period. + If AQI does not improve in some time get sensor and Cabin filter in- spected. 198 FASCIA SWITCHES Charger flap opening Charging gun lock/unlock Front Fog Lamps (If equipped) Hazard warning switch Tail gate opening Central lock/unlock Surround View System (SVS) . Charger Flap Opening 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 1 To release the charging flap, press the switch located on fascia switch 2. Charger Gun Lock/ Unlock To release the charger gun, press the switch located on fascia switch. Charging socket inlet is located on front bumper. NOTE Make sure both AC slow charging & DC fast charging is De-energised / off state. 3. Front Fog Lamps (if equipped) The front fog lamps are located on the ront bumper. In poor visibility conditions due to fog, snow or rain, the fog lamps  make visibility better and make it easier for other road users to see

snow or rain, the fog lamps  make visibility better and make it easier for other road users to see you. It turns to ‘ON’ when the fog lamp switch is turned on when the ignition is ‘ON’ and when the po- sition and parking/ head lamp is ‘ON’. An indicator on front fog lamp knob will come on when the front fog light is ‘ON’. 4. Hazard Warning Switch Press the hazard warning switch to acti- vate the hazard warning. All the turn signal lamps will flash simultaneously. To turn OFF, press the switch again. 5. Tail Gate Opening To unlatch the tail gate, press the switch located on fascia switch. 6. Central Lock/unlock To open the door, press the Lock/unlock door switch located on the fascia switch. 7. Surround View Camera (SVS) Press this switch to see the 360°view in the display screen. INTERIOR AND EXTERIOR FEATURES POWER SUNROOF (if equipped) It bring natural light and fresh air into pas- senger compartment .The cabin becomes more illuminated and bright which gives pleasant feeling while

compartment .The cabin becomes more illuminated and bright which gives pleasant feeling while driving and makes driving experience more enjoyable and re- laxed. Sunroof allows air to flow evenly from the roof which is more quieter and less intru- sive than wind blowing through a side win- dow. Sunroof can be operated by Manual Switch, Voice Command and by Rain De- tection/Vehicle Lock. Manual Switch Push Sunroof:Closing (to tilt Up/Down): Tst)Detent dh Phe AO 2nd Detent 2nd Detent; Wi Oo + j 7” } 1stiDetent Vehicle FR’ if “ Sunroof Open This switch is used to open, close, tilt up & tilt down the sunroof as and when re- quired with switch intended operation. 1. Pull the knob away from the windshield to open the sunroof. It will be having two detents. * 1st detent Manual (long press) to open and stop at desired position. * 2nd detent Express (one touch) to open Sunroof completely. 2. Push the knob towards the windshield to close the sunroof. It will be having 199  INTERIOR AND EXTERIOR

the knob towards the windshield to close the sunroof. It will be having 199  INTERIOR AND EXTERIOR FEATURES two detents. * 1st detent Manual (long press) to close and stop at desired position. * 2nd detent Express (one touch) to close Sunroof completely. Sunshade Close Position 3. Press at the center of the knob for tilt up/down function. Sunroof switch mounted in overhead console near roof lamp. Sunshade Open Position Sunroof Voice Command Ensure vehicle is in IGN ON/running con- dition. * Enable voice recognition via steering wheel switch or TATA Assist icon from the infotainment screen. 200 System will prompted with “How can | help?” Give the “sunroof open/close” com- mand. Sunroof will be opened/closed.  Warning for Voice Command Speak the commands /Instruction in a neutral English accent for best results. Do not take long pauses (greater than 1 second) while speaking the words in a command. Speak the words of the command at a constant rate. Avoid varying your pitch and volume

a command. Speak the words of the command at a constant rate. Avoid varying your pitch and volume while speaking the commands. Speak clearly and loudly at a reasonable speed. Ensure that there is no noise distur- bance when you speak the commands like, other passengers in the vehicle INTERIOR AND EXTERIOR FEATURES are talking or there is lot of wind noise. Disturbance from external sound sources may result in poor voice recognition. Always face forward while speaking your commands as the voice recogni- tion quality is best in this orientation. Sunroof Closure on Auto Detection of Rain/vehicle Lock For User Convenience / Protection of ve- hicle, sunroof will automatically close under following conditions: Rain Detection: When sunroof is open and rain is detected (based on Wiper speed is slow/high upon raining), then Sunroof will close automatically + Vehicle Locking: The sun roof will close automatically when ignition is off and vehicle is locked from out through driver door manual key

automatically when ignition is off and vehicle is locked from out through driver door manual key or by remote key. NOTE Combi Switch should be in auto mode to close sunroof with rain sensor. 201  INTERIOR AND EXTERIOR FEATURES Automatic Reversal / Anti-pinch Func- tion If the sunroof senses any obstacle while it is closing then it will reverse its direction and opens the sunroof so that trapped ob- ject will get released easily. The auto re- verse function may not work if very thin or soft object is caught between the sunroof assembly. Anti-Pinch/ Automatic reversal is a safety feature however to override it and operate sunroof manually, press sun- roof close switch within 10 seconds of auto-reversal completion and hold it till sunroof is fully closed. 202 WARNING Never try pinching of any part of your body intentionally to activate the Auto- matic reversal function. The Automatic reversal function may not work if something gets stuck just be- fore the sunroof fully closes. Warning

function may not work if something gets stuck just be- fore the sunroof fully closes. Warning For Sunroof Even though the sunroof can be operated when the ignition key is in the ON position (the vehicle is not running), operating the sunroof repeatedly with the vehicle turned off will run down the battery. Operate the sunroof while the vehicle is running When a desired sunroof operation is com- pleted, release the switch. If you keep pressing the switch, it could cause a mal- function. Especially in winter, never oper- ate the sunroof if moving areas are iced. Wait until the areas are de-iced. Make sure head, hands, arms or any other body parts or objects are out of the way before operating the sunroof. Body parts or objects may get pinched causing in- juries or vehicle damage. Never deliberately use your body parts to test the automatic reversal function. The sunroof glass may reverse direction, but there is a risk of injury. Dust accumulated between the sunroof and roof panel can

direction, but there is a risk of injury. Dust accumulated between the sunroof and roof panel can make noise or cause any damage. Open the sunroof and re- move dust regularly using a clean cloth. Do not sit on the top of the sunroof. It may cause injury or vehicle damage. Do not allow passengers to lean out of an open sunroof whilst the vehicle is in mo- tion. Injuries may occur from objects such as tree branches. Safety of the vehicle occupants must be observed at all times. Do not allow limbs to be placed in the moving path of the sun- roof at any time, injury may occur. WARNING High Pressure wash Jet Flow should not be directed on Sunroof sealing area around periphery of glass. Doing so many lead to water leakage inside  cabin. Initializing The Power Sunroof In the event of a power failure or while re- placing the dead fuse or battery discon- nection when the sunroof is in motion, then sunroof will require initialization when the power is restored. Initializing Procedure 1. Turn ON

sunroof will require initialization when the power is restored. Initializing Procedure 1. Turn ON the ignition. 2. Close the sunroof fully by pressing ‘sunroof close switch’ and keep the switch pressed for 1-2 seconds after the roof is fully closed, till clicking sound comes from Sunroof. 3. The Initializing command is complete, Check if the Express open/close fea- tures are working. INTERIOR AND EXTERIOR FEATURES B-call and E-call Switch 1. B-Call Switch: B-Call (Breakdown As- sistance) will connect you to a TATA MOTORS Roadside assistance for Towing. Not for ambulance service. 2. Red LED Indication: Red LED indi- cates the fault or failure in B-Call/E- Call functionality. 3. Green LED Indication: Green LED in- dicates the status of ongoing B-Call or E-Call. 4. E-Call Switch (Emergency Call or SOS Switch): E-Call will connect you to towing and ambulance services. @ NOTE *Subject to mobile network, connectivity and location mentioned. 203  INTERIOR AND EXTERIOR FEATURES STEERING

mobile network, connectivity and location mentioned. 203  INTERIOR AND EXTERIOR FEATURES STEERING MOUNTED CONTROLS (if equipped) Steering Mounted Controls (LHS) 1. Volume Press above switch to increase or de- crease volume of music system / radio. 2. Phone Receive Press above switch to accept incoming call when a cell phone is connected via Bluetooth. 3. Source Press above switch to select the required 204 source in the infotainment system i.e. USB, AM, FM and Bluetooth. 4. Seek Forward/backward This will function in the two modes. Radio Mode - will change radio channels. Media Mode - will change sound tracks. 5. Push To Talk For Voice Recognition, press this switch. The system mutes/ pauses the currently played audio and you will hear a beep sound to indicate the activation of the voice recognition feature. The system dis- plays the voice recognition screen on In- fotainment to indicate activation of the feature. 6. Phone Reject Press the switch to reject or hang up a phone call. 7.

activation of the feature. 6. Phone Reject Press the switch to reject or hang up a phone call. 7. Mute For mute, press this switch. The system mutes/ pauses the currently played audio. Press above switch to reject or hang up a phone call. It is also used to mute the vol- ume of music system/radio Master /force Restart Process If your infotainment system touch screen becomes unresponsive or shows some unusual behavior, then you can restart it to potentially resolve the issue. Follow some basic steps given below and you can restart the system. To restart the infotainment system 1. Park the vehicle. 2. Hold the Steering wheel Mute button (long press) (as shown in above image) for about 10 secs. 3. Now hold the Steering wheel source  change button (long Press) for more than 10 sec) and release as soon as display’s goes blank @ NOTE + It is preferable to do one Ignition OFF to ON cycle after Master/Force restart to synchronize vehicle set- tings with the TATA Infotainment System. + If the

Master/Force restart to synchronize vehicle set- tings with the TATA Infotainment System. + If the reboot does not work or mas- ter/force restarts are required on a weekly or daily basis, vehicle shall be taken to dealership. There, the dealer can update your firmware or inspect the system for hard-ware problem. + Force/Master restart keeps the stored data, such as call history, text message information, and previ- ously paired phones as it is. INTERIOR AND EXTERIOR FEATURES Steering Mounted Controls (RHS) 1. Page Up/down If cluster screen is selected, with Up/Down switch you can access the submenu screens of a main menu. 2. Pagination Press the switch to enter in to cluster screen. 3. Cruise ON/OFF Press the switch to turn ON/OFF the cruise function. 4. SET+/ SET- Accelerate the vehicle to desired speed, Press the SET + to select the required cruise speed. When the cruise control is set, you can increase or decrease the speed by pushing SET+/ SET- buttons re- spectively. 5. RES / CAN

you can increase or decrease the speed by pushing SET+/ SET- buttons re- spectively. 5. RES / CAN To resume a previously set speed, push the RES button and release. This switch is also used to cancel /deactivate (CAN) cruise control system without erasing the set speed from memory. 6. View Press the view button to switch between the dials & driver information display of in- strument cluster. 7. Selection (OK) Push the OK button to access/select the sub menu screens of a main menu item. 205  INTERIOR AND EXTERIOR FEATURES Regeneration Switch ’ Default Regener- INFOTAINMENT SYSTEM DISPLAY Drive Modes . . ation Option | Sport Levelt City Levelt Eco Level eeueen ieee Drive Modes Default Regener- ation OFF No Regeneration Level 4 Minimum Regener- ation Level 2 Intermediate Re- + By using the regeneration switch (Pul generation type) driver can Up/Down regeneration Maximum Regen- \ Level 3 . evel. eration + Level down switch can be used to re- duce regeneration level (3 2 1 —OFF) + Level Up

eration + Level down switch can be used to re- duce regeneration level (3 2 1 —OFF) + Level Up switch can be used to in- crease the regeneration level (OFF 1 2 3) + Default regeneration level on the ve- hicle when vehicle is cranked will be Level 1. 206  INTERIOR AND EXTERIOR FEATURES Option Il MIC (if equipped) SPEAKERS & TWEETER (if equipped) Mic is provided on the roof near the roof lamp. 207  INTERIOR AND EXTERIOR FEATURES Speakers and Tweeters are available in models with infotainment system. Provi- sions are given for music system and speakers on versions without infotainment system. 208 USB Port(if equipped) Front USB A + C Charger POWER SOCKET On Center Console A type USB port is used to connect your portable digital music players, pen drives etc. for playing music tracks through the vehicle’s music system. C type USB port is used for fast charging of mobiles which are having C type inter- face.  Behind Rear Seat On LH Side The power socket will work when the igni- tion switch

inter- face.  Behind Rear Seat On LH Side The power socket will work when the igni- tion switch is in the “ACC” or “ON” position. This socket can be used to provide 12V (10A) power for electrical accessories. @ NOTE + Use of unapproved electrical acces- sories can cause damage to your vehi- cle’s electrical system. + Make sure that any electrical acces- sories you use are designed to plug into this type of socket and rating. INTERIOR AND EXTERIOR FEATURES LAMPS Roof Lamp Interior roof lighting lamp is provided on the roof with inbuilt switch. ON condition The lamp will turn ‘ON’ as long as the switch is in this position. DOOR condition In this position the lamp turns to ‘ON’ when either of the doors are opened. When the last door is closed, the lamp will turn ‘OFF’ with dimming. This helps settling in the seat and inserting the key in the ignition switch. When the key is turned to the ‘IGN’ position, the lamp goes ‘OFF’ immediately. OFF condition In this position, the lamp will remain

position, the lamp goes ‘OFF’ immediately. OFF condition In this position, the lamp will remain ‘OFF’. 209  INTERIOR AND EXTERIOR FEATURES Boot Lamp Boot lamp is provided in the rear luggage compartment to illuminate the luggage area. Whenever a door or tailgate is opened, it will turn ON. MOOD LIGHTS/AMBIENT LIGHTS (if equipped) Ambient Light Function Ambient lighting comforts user by illumi- nating the vehicle interiors at defined loca- tions. Single colored LEDs are fixed at various locations of the vehicle interiors. Turning Ambient Lighting ON and OFF: + Ambient lights turn ON in themes and color options (as per vehicle applicabil- ity) whenever parking light is turned to ON. «+ Ambient lights turn OFF whenever parking light is turned to OFF. Ambient Lights (entry/exit): + Ambient lights turn ON in themes and color options (as per vehicle applicabil- ity) whenever roof lamp made active by removing the ignition key from key slot and opening any door. * Once the opened door is

active by removing the ignition key from key slot and opening any door. * Once the opened door is closed, the ambient lights dims off after approxi- mately 25 seconds. «If door is left open, ambient lights will 5 Level Brightness Control Drag the slider to the right or left to ad- just the brightness. turn OFF after set battery saver time. 210  VEHICLE TELEMATICS Car is equipped with iRA - Connected car Technology which offers a host of features to the users through the “iRA - Connected car” Mobile Application (APP). The Vehicle is equipped with an Electronic Control unit which monitors & records the data from various vehicle systems like Transmission, Brake, Battery & other electrical systems. This data is then processed & used for providing the connected Car features. (Refer the app tour section of the mobile app.) The Connected Car module records the following information: Vehicle Telematics This includes the periodic transmission of data from other vehicle ECUs & Electronic

Telematics This includes the periodic transmission of data from other vehicle ECUs & Electronic systems like EMS, ABS, Air Bag, BMS, BCM etc. along with the geographi- cal location of the vehicle. Vehicle driving behavior This includes the location, speed, acceler- ation, trip details, charging etc. INTERIOR AND EXTERIOR FEATURES Used as defence of TATA MOTORS in Event based recording ° This includes data generated during spe- cific events like vehicle collision, intrusion, un-authorized entry etc. The Data collected through Connected Car module is used by TATA Passenger Electric Mobility Limited for various pur- poses, including, but not limited to, provid- ing connected car features through mobile APP. * Evaluation of Vehicle performance. * Research & improvement of current & future vehicle designs. * Troubleshooting & diagnostics of the vehicle. TATA MOTORS does not disclose the data recorded from your vehicle to any third party except: « After obtaining a written consent from the

recorded from your vehicle to any third party except: « After obtaining a written consent from the Car Owner. * Upon request from Law enforcing agencies and regulatory bodies. + Used for research purpose without the Personal Verifiable information (anonymized). a Lawsuit. 211  INTERIOR AND EXTERIOR FEATURES WIRELESS POWER CHARGING (if equipped) WPC System Description Wireless Power Charging (is a conven- ience feature to charge the smart mobile phone using wireless charging technology, without a need to plugin wire in the device. The WPC system is powered with vehicle battery and the wireless power charging function is enabled with Ignition ON. Qi Compatible Term Qi 1.1.4: refers to certified product with the capability to transmit power of up to 15 W and detect metal and other impurities to prevent heating. @ NOTE The WPC would support only those smart phones which are Qi compatible. Please refer to the smart phone manual or connect to smart phone manufac- turer to check whether your

refer to the smart phone manual or connect to smart phone manufac- turer to check whether your smart phone supports Qi function. 212 Location of Wireless Charger Location: The location of the WPC in ve- hicle is in the Centre console area as below. Function of Each Component of WPC ¢ Wireless Power Charging (WPC) ECU: Generates power up to 15W and transfer power wirelessly by magnetic induction. ¢ Anti-skid Mat: Holds the position of smart phone placed on it against any jerk and acts a charging contact sur- face for the smart phone. ¢ Cooling FAN: It is provided to keep charging surface temperature within ambient temperature range. ¢ FAN Cover: It has ducts to direct FAN air on WPC ECU surface. ¢ Infotainment unit: It is status display unit to display the status of wireless power charger. Status symbol and text display is displayed on Infotainment unit.  Functions of WPC System A. Charging function: Charge smart phone Following all the conditions are applicable in this feature to

function: Charge smart phone Following all the conditions are applicable in this feature to function correctly * Ignition ON (vehicle OFF) * Vehicle ON * Smart phone placed in correct orienta- tion on the antiskid mat as below INTERIOR AND EXTERIOR FEATURES WPC system detects the presence of phone and starts charging as per the Qi standard protocol. The charging status is updated and displayed on the head unit. B. Charging Status display function: 1. WPC system in standby mode - WPC system is waiting for phone or phone is not getting detected by the WPC system etc. Customer is advised to check the Qi compatibility/phone align- ment/any foreign object between the phone and mat. 2. Smart phone charging ON- Phone is charging 3. Metal object on the antiskid mat - Cus- tomer is advised to check any metal object on antiskid mat, if found, it is to be removed. 4. Smart phone battery is full/Charging completed 5. WPC ECU error (“Error” condition indi- cates abnormal operating conditions

completed 5. WPC ECU error (“Error” condition indi- cates abnormal operating conditions internal system fault or fan stuck/jam) - Customer should realign the phone to centre to initiate charging. if problem is not resolved you are advised to visit the TATA MOTORS EV Authorised Service Centre. A Place phone properly and remove metallic object if any on charging pad Metal Object Detected - Popup Metal Object Detected -All Time Display 213  INTERIOR AND EXTERIOR FEATURES Conditions to Charge Phone Properly 1. Keep the charging surface clear of any metal objects (coins, credit cards, smart cards, keys etc.) Place the smart phone on the charging area marked for positioning the phone, for best results place the smart phone at the center of the charging pad. Charge the smartphone without its cover or not a thick cover otherwise it would halt the wireless charging Ensure that the phone is placed with display facing upwards and charging area touching the charging pad sur- face. Turn ON the

with display facing upwards and charging area touching the charging pad sur- face. Turn ON the ignition to start the charg- ing. 214 INFORMATION The wireless charging function is sup- ported to charge smart phones which are Qi compatible. Certain features may not function as not supported by the smart phone manufacturer and not a malfunction of the wireless charging. Wireless charging stops with Ignition OFF. Wireless charging stops when the smart phone is not completely in touch with the charging pad surface or not positioned correctly on charging pad Do’s and Don’ts WARNING 1. If any metal object such as coin is lo- cated between wireless charging pad and phone back, the charging may get disrupted. Also, metal object may heat up. Do’s: 1. Please ensure that the phone is com- patible to the charging standard “Qi”. 2. If any metal object found on charging pad remove it immediately. 3. In case of water/Liquid spillage on charging pad, dry out the pad surface area properly & clean the

In case of water/Liquid spillage on charging pad, dry out the pad surface area properly & clean the ECU surface area by removing Anti-skid mat. Do not charge the smart phone until surface is completely dry. 4. The smart phone may become hot while getting charged. Please be cau- tious about the high temperature while picking up the smartphone from the charging pad.  5. Wireless charger works on principle of magnetic induction, i.e. it converts electrical energy into magnetic energy to transfer energy from charging pad to phone. Please maintain safe distance from the charger most of the time as it may cause irritation to sensory organs or active implants if implemented in the body. Please consult medical specialist in case implant organ in the body of the user 6. Always turn ON the IGN while using this feature to avoid vehicle battery drain issue. 7. Always keep charging pad clean and dust free. 8. Vehicle AC may turn ON during wire- less mobile charging for efficient use of this

dust free. 8. Vehicle AC may turn ON during wire- less mobile charging for efficient use of this feature. Don’ts: 1. Do not use metal smart phone covers as it would halt the wireless charging function. The wireless charging may not function properly when there is a heavy & thick accessory cover on the smart phone. INTERIOR AND EXTERIOR FEATURES . Do not place smart phone up-side down on charging pad or do not miss aligned mobile phone on charging pad in such case smartphone charging will not happen. . Do not keep any metal objects like coins, smart keys, electronic cards e.g. credit card, debit card, smartcard from the charging pad as it may disrupt the charging process and/or may damage the card. . Donot keep any liquid (e.g. water, cold drink, and sanitizer), flammable object on antiskid mat. . Do not cover the wireless charger with a cloth or other object while charging. It may heat up the device and reduce the charging efficiency. . Do not disassemble, modify or remove the

heat up the device and reduce the charging efficiency. . Do not disassemble, modify or remove the wireless charger & do not apply force or impact to the wireless. Information 1. Small noise may be heard when a smart phone which does not support wireless charging or any foreign object is placed on the charging pad. This small sound is due to the vehicle dis- cerning compatibility of the object placed on the charging pad. It does not affect the vehicle performance or the smartphone in any way. 2. For certain cellular phones with their own protection, the wireless charging speed may decrease and the wireless changing may stop. 3. When the interior temperature of the wireless charger rises above a set temperature, the wireless charging will cease to charging function. After the in- terior temperature drops below set threshold, the wireless charging func- tion will resume. 4. When the mobile phone temperature rises above a set cut off threshold, the wireless charging will cease to charg-

phone temperature rises above a set cut off threshold, the wireless charging will cease to charg- ing function due to mobile phone stops demand power from wireless charger. 215  INTERIOR AND EXTERIOR FEATURES After the mobile phone temperature drops below threshold, the wireless charging function will resume. Mobile temperature cut off threshold is much lower than WPC temperature cut off threshold. 5. When charging certain smart phones, the charging full message on head unit may not display when the smart phone is fully charged. It depends on smart phone manufacturer. 6. Smartphone of some manufacturers may display messages on weak cur- rent. This is due to particular charac- teristic of smartphone and does not imply a malfunction on wireless charger. Smaller smartphone users (ex. IPhone) may face intermittent charging issues due to its smaller size. (To avoid this, place the smartphone at center of the charging pad). Small mo- bile phones may not be able to charge in every position

at center of the charging pad). Small mo- bile phones may not be able to charge in every position on charging pad. 7. The wireless charger may not operate correctly when the vehicle is near a TV tower, electric power plant, gas station, 216 large display, airport, or other facility that generates strong radio waves or electrical noise. WPC ECU in Standby Mode The infotainment system displays no warning message/ indication in this mode. This mode represents that the charging function is halted and not functional. The charging function could halt because of below reasons like: 1. Phone is not properly aligned with the charging pad or not positioned cor- rectly on pad wireless charger in standby mode 2. Phone is kept in upside down position wireless charger in standby mode 3. Phone is fully charged, and phone does not demand power wireless charger in standby mode Smart Phone Charging ON Mode When the smart phone is placed correctly and the conditions are favorable to per- form the

ON Mode When the smart phone is placed correctly and the conditions are favorable to per- form the function of wireless charging, the infotainment system shows following mes- sages. After Popup, The charging symbol stays ON until the phone is fully charged. Top to para device 91.1 MH: @ Charging Mode ON — All Time Display  Metal Object Detection Mode The charging gets interrupted/stopped due o metal object placed on the charging pad. The infotainment head unit displays following message. Check if there are any foreign objects between the smart phone and the charging pad, please clean if so. Smartphone shall be lifted for removing foreign objects and place it back on charg- ing pad. Metal Objects INTERIOR AND EXTERIOR FEATURES * Delay in restarting of mobile charg- ing will be observed if foreign ob- jects are removed without lifting smart phone. + After removing the foreign objects, if smart phone do not resume charg- ing immediately lift the phone and place on charging pad to start

smart phone do not resume charg- ing immediately lift the phone and place on charging pad to start the charging. + In case, Phone overheat, remove and keep it after sometime. Smart Phone Battery is Full/ Charg- ing Completed The smart phone fully charged status is in- dicated on the infotainment display screen with following message. This Indication depends on phone profile whether it com- municate the battery full charge status to WPC System. ess Charging #9 nsTO 208% 2 we ba 126A [Adio Setup Vole Command Stings Charging Complete Indication - All Time Display 217  INTERIOR AND EXTERIOR FEATURES WPC System Error Mode The error in the WPCF wireless power charger with FAN, system may cause the error message to get displayed on the in- fotainment screen. Some of errors that can occur while charg- ing which halt/interrupt charging can be covered with this indication are: + WPCF internal fault which lead to per- manent failure in charger functionality + WPC Fan Stuck / Jam is detected +

which lead to per- manent failure in charger functionality + WPC Fan Stuck / Jam is detected + Coil Failure + High Temperature of WPC device (70 Degree C) * Memory failure A Charging may be interrupted due to error System Error Mode- Popup 218 @ NOTE /f error message is pop up on head unit then avoid charging the smart phone and visit the nearby service station. ANTENNA Rod Type - Option | Kora] Antenna is located on the roof. Turn the antenna anticlockwise to remove it from the vehicle, if required.  Shark Fin - Option II Shark FIN antenna is provided on the roo’ at rear end. INTERIOR AND EXTERIOR FEATURES Tail Lamp HEAD LAMP AND TAIL LAMP Head Lamp @— Or eo Turn Indicator / DRL / Position lamp Head lamp (High / Low beam) Fog lamp BON > Center Position Lamp (if equipped) Oat on a Stop Lamp / Rear Position Lamp Turn Indicator Reverse Lamp (option !) Reflex Reflector High Mounted Stop Lamp Reverse Lamp (option II) 219  INTERIOR AND EXTERIOR FEATURES Welcome And Good Bye Strategy

Lamp Reverse Lamp (option II) 219  INTERIOR AND EXTERIOR FEATURES Welcome And Good Bye Strategy Function Vehicle Condition Key Inputs Lamp Animation Asingle flash of all direction turn indica- 1 Welcome Animation Lock Unlock tors followed with a welcome animation of three cycles. Total animation time is ap- prox. 4.5 Sec. Two flashes of all direction turn indicators 2 Goodbye Animation Unlock Lock followed with a goodbye animation of three cycles. Total animation time is approx. 4.5 Sec 3 Second input Unlock Unlock Unlock Single flash of all direction turn indicators. 4 Second input Lock Lock Lock Four flashes of all direction turn indicators. 220  For Animation Function INTERIOR AND EXTERIOR FEATURES Lamp Animation 1 Buffering Animation When charging is connected, the 20% battery state of charge band on the centre position lamp will gradually illuminate and will stay solid ON until charging commence. 2 Charging Animation Once Charging is initiated, a single LED light bead will travel

commence. 2 Charging Animation Once Charging is initiated, a single LED light bead will travel from inward to outward on centre position lamp, keeping the previous segment of battery state of charge solid ON, the animation will be played as per HMI user selected timing. Note- In case if there is delay in starting charging session after gun connection, charging animation will not be shown. However actual charging session of HV battery will continue as normal. 3 Charging Error LL 4 ~ - “T1N When a charging fault occurs, the 20% battery state of charge segment on the centre position lamp will blink for 30 seconds. Battery Charge state 100% When battery is fully charged, the complete centre positon lamp will illuminate and will stay ON for 1 minute. 221  INTERIOR AND EXTERIOR FEATURES ROOF RAIL Aesthetic Roof Rail u @ NOTE Do not apply load or mount roof rack on roof rails.  STORAGE COMPARTMENT OakRwn n> STOWAGE AREA Glove box Driver side coin box Utility pockets on front doors Utility

OakRwn n> STOWAGE AREA Glove box Driver side coin box Utility pockets on front doors Utility pockets on rear doors Luggage Compartment Foldable arm rest/ Cup holder 223  STOWAGE AREA GLOVE BOX Opening And Closing To open- Press the knob and open the glove box flap. To close - Lift glove box flap upward until it engages. Glove Box Illumination The glove box lamp illuminates when the glove box flap is opened. 224 Make sure that glove box flap is closed while driving. Stowage Detail Following items can be stored in glove box. 1. Owner’s manual and other vehicle document 2. Glove box Cooling Facility (if equipped) On selected models glove box is provided with a cooling facility. It cools the glove box only when the front A/C is ON. Shut OFF the vent by rotating the knob, whenever cooling is not required.  DRIVER SIDE COIN BOX Stowage is provided on RH side of steer- ing wheel for Coin, mobile and wallet. STOWAGE AREA UTILITY POCKETS ON FRONT UTILITY POCKETS on REAR DOORS DOORS OS Utility

and wallet. STOWAGE AREA UTILITY POCKETS ON FRONT UTILITY POCKETS on REAR DOORS DOORS OS Utility pockets are provided on front doors _ Utility pockets are available on rear doors and it can be used to keep following items. and it can be used to keep following items. 1. Magazine / paper / books 1. Suitable water bottle 2. Suitable water bottle 2. Magazine / paper / books 3. Suitable Umbrella @ NOTE Remove the water from umbrella and fold it properly before storing it in um umbrella holder. 225  STOWAGE AREA CENTER CONSOLE Stowage Below Arm Rest Stowage below arm rest Stowage compartment is provided below he foldable arm rest for keeping cell phones, iPod’s, chargers etc. 226 Lift arm rest to open the stowage area. FOLDABLE ARM REST (if equipped) A foldable arm rest has been provided in the rear seat. It also has two-cup holders, which can be accessed by opening the cover. When not required, fold the armrest back into the seat. @ NOTE Remove all items and cups before fold- ing the cup

fold the armrest back into the seat. @ NOTE Remove all items and cups before fold- ing the cup holders. Use cups, contain- ers, bottles of right size and which have lids. The content could otherwise spill.  LUGGAGE COMPARTMENT Store the luggage in luggage compart- ment. You can keep suitcase, bags, etc. A\ WARNING ¢ Distribute the items of luggage as evenly as possible. + Position heavy loads towards rear seat and low down in the trunk as possible. * Do not allow occupants to travel in the luggage compartment. + Do not place anything on luggage cover as it could obstruct driver’s rear view. Also in case of an acci- dent or sudden braking, it could cause an injury to occupants. Storage Below Luggage Carpet Store the suitable luggage below the lug- gage carpet in luggage compartment. It can be used to keep small items. TATA MOTORS does not recommend use of any floor mats below driver foot, from occupant safety point of view. If floor mats are used by end user, for different reasons,

from occupant safety point of view. If floor mats are used by end user, for different reasons, they need to be secured in place with the provided floor carpet clips. This is recommended, as in nor-mal driving conditions, floor mats may _ slip forward and interfere with pedals. STOWAGE AREA Stowage at rear Stowage is provided at rear. You can keep mobile, iPod’s, chargers etc. 227  STOWAGE AREA HOOKS (if equipped) Collapsible Hook Carrier Hook In Luggage Compart- Coat Hook Collapsible hook is provided for hanging ment Coat hangers are provided for rear pas- small carry bags etc. Load up to 2 kg is Carrier hook is provided for hanging small senger on both grab handles. permissible. carry bags etc. Load up to 3 kg is permis- sible. @ NOTE @NOTE Do not use these hooks for securing luggage like using nets etc. in the boot. * The coat hook is not designed to carry heavy objects or luggage items. Do not use these hooks for securing * Do not hang hard, sharp-edged or luggage like using nets

Do not use these hooks for securing * Do not hang hard, sharp-edged or luggage like using nets etc. fragile objects on the coat hook. 228  LUGGAGE COMPARTMENT COVER Luggage cover is designed only for hiding the luggage compartment. Do not place anything on luggage cover as it could obstruct driver’s rear view. Also in case of an accident or sudden braking, it may cause an injury to the occupants. STOWAGE AREA 229  230  EMERGENCY EQUIPMENT You should be familiar with the location of the emergency equipment provided in the vehicle and how to use it. Do a check of this equipment periodically and make sure that they are in proper working condition and stowed at their lo- cations. First Aid Kit The first aid kit is kept inside the glove box compartment. The kit contains items that can be used in case of minor injuries only. @ NOTE Examine contents of the first aid kit pe- riodically and replenish consumed or expired items. Tool Kit Following parts are provided in the Tool kit box in

replenish consumed or expired items. Tool Kit Following parts are provided in the Tool kit box in Luggage Compartment. @ NOTE When you press the hazard warning The jack should be used only to change wheels. It is important to read the in- structions in this section before attempt 1. Wheel Spanner 2. Jack (if equipped) 3. 4. Tow hook Jack Handle (if equipped) EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ing to use the jack. Advance Warning Triangle An advance warning triangle is kept in the luggage compartment. Use advance warn- ing triangle to warn the approaching traffic in case of vehicle break-down or during emergency, where your vehicle could be- come a potential traffic hazard. ¢ \ switch, all turn signal lamps will start to blink. Keep the warning triangle at an ap- proximate distance of 50-150 m behind 231  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN your vehicle in the same lane of traffic. The reflecting side of the triangle should face the oncoming traffic and it should be free from any obstacles. Remove the

the triangle should face the oncoming traffic and it should be free from any obstacles. Remove the advance warning triangle carefully from the bag and assemble. Refer instructions given on the bag. @ NOTE After using the warning triangle tie it firmly and keep it inside the bag to avoid rattling noise. 232 IN CASE of FLAT TYRE * Reduce vehicle speed gradually, Avoid sudden steering movement or braking. * Pay attention to the traffic conditions as you do so. * Switch on the hazard warning lamps. * Stop the vehicle on solid, non-slippery and level ground, as far away as pos- sible from traffic. + Use the Jack on level, hard ground. Avoid changing the wheel on uphill and downhill slopes. Chocks the wheels, if the deflated wheel needs to be changed on slope / ghat area. + If possible, bring the front wheels into the straight-ahead position. * Secure the vehicle against rolling away. * Set the parking brake firmly and shift in to “R” (Reverse) gear on level ground and while vehicle is in

the parking brake firmly and shift in to “R” (Reverse) gear on level ground and while vehicle is in downhill position. + When the vehicle is in uphill position, shift the gear in first gear. + Switch off the IGN. * Keep advance warning triangle at a suitable distance behind the vehicle as an indication of breakdown. * Close all the doors. ZX WARNING If you drive with a flat tyre, there is a risk of the following hazards: + A flat tyre affects the ability to steer or brake the vehicle. * You could lose control of the vehi- cle. * Continued driving with a flat tyre will permanently damage the tyre and cause excessive heat buildup and possibly a fire. There is a risk of an accident.  Changing Flat Tyre Loosen the nuts (as indicated) on the wheel in diagonal sequence. Do not un- screw the nuts completely before raising the vehicle using the jack. Be ye Wheel! Nut Removal NOTE + The jack is designed only to raise and hold the vehicle for a short time while a wheel is being changed. It is

designed only to raise and hold the vehicle for a short time while a wheel is being changed. It is not suited for performing mainte- nance work under the vehicle. + Use the jack on level, hard ground. Avoid changing the wheel on uphill and downhill slopes. Chock the wheels, if the deflated wheel needs to be changed on slope / ghat area. * Before raising the vehicle, secure it from rolling away by applying the parking brake. * Do not use wooden blocks or similar objects as a jack underlay. * Do not place your hands and feet or lie under the raised vehicle when it is supported by a jack. + Do not start the vehicle when the vehicle is supported by the jack and never allow passengers to remain in the vehicle. + Do not open or close a door or the tailgate when the vehicle is raised. Assemble the Jack handle and wheel spanner (as shown in fig.) Position the jack vertically and raise it by turning the jack handle clockwise until the jack sits completely on the specified point EMERGENCY AND

the jack handle clockwise until the jack sits completely on the specified point EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN and the base of the jack lies evenly on the ground. The jacking points \y| are indicated on sill cover of the vehicle (Refer jacking point location). The above image is only for reference. 233  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN Jack Up Point Location On Vehicle Jack point and location on vehicle WARNING If you do not position the jack correctly at the appropriate jacking point of the vehicle, the jack could tip over with the vehicle raised. There is a risk of injury. Also jack can be damaged. Continue to raise the jack slowly and smoothly until the tyre clears the ground. Do not raise the vehicle more than neces- sary. 234 Remove wheel nuts with the help of wheel spanner and take out flat tyre. @ NOTE Do not place wheel nuts in sand or ona dirty surface. Do not apply oil or grease on it. Roll the spare wheel into position and align the holes in the wheel studs. Tighten each nut by hand until

spare wheel into position and align the holes in the wheel studs. Tighten each nut by hand until the wheel is securely seated on the hub. Lower the jack completely then tighten the wheel nuts diagonally in opposite se- quence one by one using wheel spanner. Press fit the wheel back (if equipped). Restore all the tools and jack at their re- spective locations. cover Place the flat tyre at spare wheel location NOTE * Do a check and correct the tyre pressure and wheel nuts tightness of the changed wheel at nearest au- thorised service station. Get the flat tyre repaired at the earliest * Do not jack the vehicle under rear axle.  PUNCTURE REPAIR KIT OPTION 1 (if equipped) Introduction A\ WARNING Compliance to below instructions is vital to ensure vehicle safety and personal safety. Non-compliance may result in serious injury or death. Damage to tire will affect vehicle handling and lead to loss of overall vehicle control. + The tire puncture repair kit seals most tire punctures to restore

of overall vehicle control. + The tire puncture repair kit seals most tire punctures to restore temporary mobility. * Recommended to use only for passen- ger car ground tubeless tires only and vehicle tire inflation pressure up to 300kPa (3 bar /43psi). * The system consists of a compressor and a sealant, and serves to effectively and conveniently seal punctures in car tires caused, for example, by nails or similar foreign objects with a diameter of up to %" (6 mm). * Depending on the type and extent of tire damage, some tires can only be partially sealed or not sealed at all. Loss of tire pressure can affect vehicle handling and vehicle control. Drive with caution and avoid making sudden steering or driving maneuvers, especially if the vehicle is heavily loaded or you are towing a trailer. The system will provide you with an emergency temporary repair, enabling you to continue your journey to the next vehicle or tire dealer, or to drive a maximum distance of 200 Kms. Do not exceed a

to the next vehicle or tire dealer, or to drive a maximum distance of 200 Kms. Do not exceed a maximum speed of 80 km/h. Keep the Puncture repair Kit out of the reach of children. If used for other than its intended pur- pose, the tire puncture repair Kit may cause severe accident or injury due to the fact that compressed air can act as an explosive or propellant. Park your vehicle at the roadside so that you do not obstruct the flow of traf- fic and you are able to use the Punc- EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ture repair Kit without being in danger. Engage the hand brake, even if you have parked on a level road, to ensure that the vehicle will not move. Do not attempt to remove foreign ob- jects like nails or screws penetrating the tire leave them as it is. Always ensure the vehicle is running during the tire puncture repair kit is in use, but not if the vehicle is in an en- closed or poorly ventilated area. Never leave the tire puncture repair kit unattended while in use. Do not keep the

ventilated area. Never leave the tire puncture repair kit unattended while in use. Do not keep the compressor operating for more than 10 minutes otherwise there is a risk of it overheating. Replace the sealant bottle with a new one before the expiry date is reached (see bottle label). In case that the sealant is expired the functionality can- not be fully guaranteed. Only use orig- inal tire puncture repair kit bottles which are pressure resistant. 235  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN AX WARNING Do not use the Puncture repair Kit if the tire has already been damaged as a re- sult of being driven underinflated. Do not try to seal damage other than that located within the visible tread of the tire. Do not try to seal damage to the tire’s sidewall. A\ WARNING TPMS/iTPMS (if equipped) functionality to be checked by TATA MOTORS EV Authorised Service Centre , if any error occurs due to the use of tire puncture repair kit. Location In Vehicle In Luggage compartment Puncture Repair Kit Removal

of tire puncture repair kit. Location In Vehicle In Luggage compartment Puncture Repair Kit Removal Process Remove the two Velcro as shown in figure and take out the puncture repair kit.  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN on TL == > MAX =: ) <200 km (120 miles) low I 3 237  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN How To Proceed In The Event Of A Tire Puncture First pump the tire sealant and air into the tire (see Step 1).Immediately there-after, drive a short distance (3-10 km) in order to distribute the seal-ant in the tire. After that check the tire pressure and pump more air into the tire if necessary (see Step 2). Then you can proceed to drive with cau- tion for a maximum distance of 200 kms and at a maximum speed of 80 km/h. First pump the tire sealant and air into the tire (see Step 1).lmmediately there-after, drive a short distance (3-10 check the tire pressure and pump more air into the tire if necessary (see Step 2). Then you can proceed to drive with cau- tion for a maximum distance of 200 kms and at

(see Step 2). Then you can proceed to drive with cau- tion for a maximum distance of 200 kms and at a maximum speed of 80 km/h. 238 m) in order to dis- tribute the sealant in the tire. After that Step 1 1. a Take out the hose and power plug with cable out of the tyre puncture repair kit casing. Remove the white cap of T- type connector of Sealant Bottle. Connect the hose pipe of the compres- sor with T-type connector of sealant bottle. Ensure it is tightly Fitted. Avoid skin contact with the sealant which contains natural rubber latex. Do not open pressure “air release” valve. Use enclosed protective gloves. Install sealant Bottle by rotating clock- wise firmly against the bottle holding grooves on the compressor. Remove he white cap of the hose pipe of the sealant bottle. Insert power plug into the 12 volt power socket connection. Start the vehicle in idling (only if the ve- hicle is outdoors or in a well ventilated area). Press compressor switch to ON Impor- ant: When pumping in the

or in a well ventilated area). Press compressor switch to ON Impor- ant: When pumping in the sealant hrough the tyre valve, the pressure may rise up to 500 KPa (5 bar. 73 psi) but will drop again after about 30 sec- onds 8. Inflate the tyre to an inflation pressure of minimum 180kPa, (1.8 bar/26 psi) and a maximum of 300kPa (3 bar/43 psi). 9. Remove the sealant bottle from the compressor grooves & tight the white caps on the hose pipe of the sealant bottle as well as T -type connector of he sealant bottle. This avoids unex- pected leakage of sealant residue and Lock it. 10.Make sure the puncture repair kit stored safely, but it’s still easily acces- sible, in the vehicle. 11. The compressor will be needed again when you check the tyre pressure. A\ WARNING Ensure pump should not be ON for more than 10 min as it may heat up and stop working.  ZX WARNING Check the sidewall of the tyre prior to in- flation. If there are any cracks, bumps or similar damage, do not attempt to in- flate the

to in- flation. If there are any cracks, bumps or similar damage, do not attempt to in- flate the tyre. Do not stand directly be- side the tyre while the compressor is pumping. Watch the sidewall of the tyre. If any cracks, bumps or similar damage appear, turn off the compressor and let the air out by means of the pressure “air release” valve. In this case, do not con- tinue to use the tyre. @ NOTE When pumping in the sealant through the tyre valve, the pressure may rise up to 500 kPa (5 bar/73 psi) but will drop again after about 30 seconds. A\ WARNING Need to drain fluid from tyre before re- pair. Step 2 1. Once a tyre inflation pressure of at least 180kPa (1.8 bar/26 psi) has been reached. Switch the compressor to “0” in order to read the actual tyre pres- sure from the pressure gauge. Pull the power plug from the 12 volt power socket connection. Slowly unscrew the hose from the tyre valve (sealant residues may escape from the hose) and put the protective cap back onto the hose.

valve (sealant residues may escape from the hose) and put the protective cap back onto the hose. Leave the bottle in the holder. This avoids unexpected leakage of sealant residue. 5. Make sure the Puncture repair Kit, the N cap of the bottle and the orange cap are stored safely, but are still easily ac- cessible, in the vehicle. The kit will be needed again when you check the tyre pressure. Start and drive for about 3-10 km so that the sealant can seal the damaged area. Do not drive for more than 10 min and not faster than 80 km/h. EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN 8. Stop the vehicle after driving about 3- 10 km. Check and where necessary, adjust the pressure of the damaged tyre. Remove the protective cap from the end of the hose. Screw the hose firmly onto the valve of the damaged tyre. Read the tyre pressure from the pressure gauge. 9. Ifthe pressure of the sealant-filled tyre is 130kPa (1.3 bar/19 psi) or more, it must now be adjusted to the pressure specified for your vehicle (Refer tyre

bar/19 psi) or more, it must now be adjusted to the pressure specified for your vehicle (Refer tyre pressure sticker pasted on driver door side). 10. Deflate the tyre to the specified pres- sure using the pressure “air release” valve. Rest of the remaining sealant in the hose might leak out when opening pressure “air release” valve or taking off the protective cap of the hose. Please use protective glove for safety purpose. 11. Once you have inflated the tyre to its correct tyre pressure, switch off the compressor, pull the plug out of the socket, unscrew the hose, fasten the 239  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN tyre valve cap and put back on the pro- A\ WARNING and screw the inflator hose into the tire tective cap of the hose. valve After using the sealant you may drive no faster than 80 km/h and the dam- aged tyre must be replaced as quickly 12. Leave the bottle in the holder and store the Puncture repair Kit away safely in Press the switch to “I” present on the inflator and the motor will

repair Kit away safely in Press the switch to “I” present on the inflator and the motor will start to in- the vehicle trunk ne - ran flate. | as possible (within a maximum driving . . . 13. Drive to the nearest workshop to get distance of 200 km. « Asspecified pressure is achieved then the damaged tyre repaired and if the switch to “O” present on the inflator and tyre repair is not possible it should be \Jew sealant and replacement parts can compressor will turn off. removed from the car. Before the tyre be purchased from your authorized repair + Check the tire pressure again. If tire is removed from the rim, inform your shop or dealer. Sealant bottles can be dis- pressure is too high, deflate the tire to ore dealer that the tyre contains — posed with house-hold waste. the specified pressure using the pres- sealant. vee » For Normal Tire - Checking / Inflation sure “air release” valve. AX WARNING Of Tire Pressure Follow The Below ° Remove the inflator hose from the tire valve and plug

WARNING Of Tire Pressure Follow The Below ° Remove the inflator hose from the tire valve and plug the tire valve safely. If heavy vibrations, unsteady steering Process plug ¥ behavior or noises should occur while * Remove the power plug 12V from the driving, reduce your speed and drive S power socket and assemble it properly with caution to a place where it is safe 2a Compressor Sealant and keep the unit in luggage space for you to stop the vehicle. Recheck the again for next use. tyre and its pressure. If the tyre pres- sure is less than 130kPa (1 aber, 49) ° Remove the puncture repair kit from eRe psi) or if there are any visible cracks, the luggage area. Remember that emergency road-side bumps or similar damage on the side + Insert the power plug into the 12V tire repair kits only provide temporary wall, do not continue to use the tyre. power socket connection and start the mobility. You should consult a tire spe- vehicle in idling. cialist for advice. * Remove the plug from the

You should consult a tire spe- vehicle in idling. cialist for advice. * Remove the plug from the tire valve 240  @ NOTE New sealant and replacement parts can be purchased from your authorized re- pair shop or dealer. Sealant bottles can be disposed with household waste. PUNCTURE REPAIR KIT OPTION 2 (if equipped) Introduction WARNING Compliance to below instructions is vital to ensure vehicle safety and personal safety. Non-compliance may result in serious injury or death. Damage to tire will affect vehicle handling and lead to loss of overall vehicle control. + The tire puncture repair kit seals most tire punctures to restore temporary mobility. + Recommended to use only for passen- ger car ground tubeless tires only and vehicle tire inflation pressure up to 300kPa (3 bar /43psi). * The system consists of a compressor and a sealant, and serves to effectively and conveniently seal punctures in car tires caused, for example, by nails or similar foreign objects with a diameter of up to

in car tires caused, for example, by nails or similar foreign objects with a diameter of up to %" (6 mm). * Depending on the type and extent of EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN tire damage, some tires can only be partially sealed or not sealed at all. Loss of tire pressure can affect vehicle handling and vehicle control. Drive with caution and avoid making sudden steering or driving maneuvers, especially if the vehicle is heavily loaded or you are towing a trailer. The system will provide you with an emergency temporary repair, enabling you to continue your journey to the next vehicle or tire dealer, or to drive a maximum distance of 200 Kms. Do not exceed a maximum speed of 80 km/h. Keep the Puncture repair Kit out of the reach of children. If used for other than its intended pur- pose, the tire puncture repair Kit may cause severe accident or injury due to the fact that compressed air can act as an explosive or propellant. Park your vehicle at the roadside so that you do not obstruct the

as an explosive or propellant. Park your vehicle at the roadside so that you do not obstruct the flow of traf- fic and you are able to use the Punc- 241  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ture repair Kit without being in danger. + Engage the hand brake, even if you have parked on a level road, to ensure that the vehicle will not move. + Do not attempt to remove foreign ob- jects like nails or screws penetrating the tire leave them as it is. + Always ensure the vehicle is running during the tire puncture repair kit is in use, but not if the vehicle is in an en- closed or poorly ventilated area. + Never leave the tire puncture repair kit unattended while in use. + Donot keep the compressor operating for more than 10 minutes otherwise there is a risk of it overheating. + Replace the sealant bottle with a new one before the expiry date is reached (see bottle label). In case that the sealant is expired the functionality can- not be fully guaranteed. Only use orig- inal tire puncture repair kit

the functionality can- not be fully guaranteed. Only use orig- inal tire puncture repair kit bottles which are pressure resistant. 242 AX WARNING Do not use the Puncture repair Kit if the tire has already been damaged as a re- sult of being driven underinflated. Do not try to seal damage other than that located within the visible tread of the tire. Do not try to seal damage to the tire’s sidewall. A\ WARNING TPMS/iTPMS (if equipped) functionality to be checked by TATA MOTORS EV Authorised Service Centre, if any error occurs due to the use of tire puncture repair kit. Location In Vehicle In Luggage compartment  Puncture Repair Kit Removal Process Remove the two Velcro as shown in figure and take out the puncture repair kit. EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN 243  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN Steps ry 244  Step 1 1. Take out the hose and power plug with cable out of the puncture repair kit cas- ing. Remove the white cap of T-type connector of Sealant Bottle. Connect the hose pipe of the compres- sor

the white cap of T-type connector of Sealant Bottle. Connect the hose pipe of the compres- sor with T-type connector of sealant bottle. Ensure it is tightly Fitted. Avoid skin contact with the sealant which contains natural rubber latex. Do not open pressure “air release” valve. Use enclosed protective gloves. Install sealant Bottle by rotating clock- wise firmly against the bottle holding grooves on the compressor. Remove the white cap of the hose pipe of the sealant bottle. Insert power plug into the 12 volt power socket connection. Start the vehicle in idling (only if the ve- hicle is outdoors or in a well ventilated area). Press compressor switch to ON Impor- tant: When pumping in the sealant through the tyre valve, the pressure 10. 11. may rise up to 500 KPa (5 bar. 73 psi) but will drop again after about 30 sec- onds Inflate the tyre to an inflation pressure of minimum 180kPa, (1.8 bar/26 psi) and a maximum of 300kPa (3 bar/43 psi). Remove the sealant bottle from the compressor

bar/26 psi) and a maximum of 300kPa (3 bar/43 psi). Remove the sealant bottle from the compressor grooves & tight the white caps on the hose pipe of the sealant bottle as well as T -type connector of the sealant bottle. This avoids unex- pected leakage of sealant residue and Lock it. Make sure the puncture repair kit stored safely, but it’s still easily acces- sible, in the vehicle. The compressor will be needed again when you check the tyre pressure. EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN A\ WARNING Ensure pump should not be ON for more than 10 min as it may heat up and stop working. A\ WARNING Check the sidewall of the tyre prior to in- flation. If there are any cracks, bumps or similar damage, do not attempt to in- flate the tyre. Do not stand directly be- side the tyre while the compressor is pumping. Watch the sidewall of the tyre. If any cracks, bumps or similar damage appear, turn off the compressor and let the air out by means of the pressure “air release’ valve. In this case, do not con-

and let the air out by means of the pressure “air release’ valve. In this case, do not con- tinue to use the tyre. NOTE When pumping in the sealant through the tyre valve, the pressure may rise up to 500 kPa (5 bar/73 psi) but will drop again after about 30 seconds. 245  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN AX WARNING Need to drain fluid from tyre before re- pair. Step 2 1. Once a tyre inflation pressure of at least 180kPa (1.8 bar/26 psi) has been reached. Switch the compressor to “0” in order to read the actual tyre pres- sure from the pressure gauge. Pull the power plug from the 12 volt power socket connection. Slowly unscrew the hose from the tyre valve (sealant residues may escape from the hose) and put the protective cap back onto the hose. Leave the bottle in the holder. This avoids unexpected leakage of sealant residue. Make sure the Puncture repair Kit, the cap of the bottle and the orange cap are stored safely, but are still easily ac- cessible, in the vehicle. The kit will be needed

cap are stored safely, but are still easily ac- cessible, in the vehicle. The kit will be needed again when you check the tyre pressure. 246 10. Start and drive for about 3-10 km so that the sealant can seal the damaged area. Do not drive for more than 10 min and not faster than 80 km/h. Stop the vehicle after driving about 3- 10 km. Check and where necessary, adjust the pressure of the damaged yre. Remove the protective cap from he end of the hose. Screw the hose irmly onto the valve of the damaged yre. Read the tyre pressure from the pressure gauge. If the pressure of the sealant-filled tyre is 130kPa (1.3 bar/19 psi) or more, it must now be adjusted to the pressure specified for your vehicle (Refer tyre pressure sticker pasted on driver door side). Deflate the tyre to the specified pres- sure using the pressure “air release” valve. Rest of the remaining sealant in he hose might leak out when opening pressure “air release” valve or taking off the protective cap of the hose. Please

out when opening pressure “air release” valve or taking off the protective cap of the hose. Please use protective glove for safety purpose. 11. 12. 13. Once you have inflated the tyre to its correct tyre pressure, switch off the compressor, pull the plug out of the socket, unscrew the hose, fasten the lyre valve cap and put back on the pro- ective cap of the hose. Leave the bottle in the holder and store he Puncture repair Kit away safely in he vehicle trunk Drive to the nearest workshop to get he damaged tyre repaired and if the lyre repair is not possible it should be removed from the car. Before the tyre is removed from the rim, inform your yre dealer that the tyre contains sealant. ZX WARNING If heavy vibrations, unsteady steering behavior or noises should occur while driving, reduce your speed and drive with caution to a place where it is safe for you to stop the vehicle. Recheck the tyre and its pressure. If the tyre pres- sure is less than 130kPa (1.3bar, 19 psi) or if there

the tyre and its pressure. If the tyre pres- sure is less than 130kPa (1.3bar, 19 psi) or if there are any visible cracks,  bumps or similar damage on the side wall, do not continue to use the tyre. A\ WARNING After using the sealant you may drive no faster than 80 km/h and the dam- aged tyre must be replaced as quickly as possible (within a maximum driving distance of 200 km. New sealant and replacement parts can be purchased from your authorized repair shop or dealer. Sealant bottles can be dis- posed with house-hold waste. For Normal Tire - Checking / Inflation Of Tire Pressure Follow The Below Process > Compressor Sealent Remove the puncture repair kit from the luggage area. Insert the power plug into the 12V power socket connection and start the vehicle in idling. Remove the plug from the tire valve and screw the inflator hose into the tire valve Press the switch to “I” present on the inflator and the motor will start to in- flate. As specified pressure is achieved then switch to

inflator and the motor will start to in- flate. As specified pressure is achieved then switch to “0” present on the inflator and compressor will turn off. Check the tire pressure again. If tire pressure is too high, deflate the tire to the specified pressure using the pres- sure “air release” valve. Remove the inflator hose from the tire valve and plug the tire valve safely. Remove the power plug 12V from the EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN power socket and assemble it properly and keep the unit in luggage space again for next use. @ NOTE Remember that emergency road-side tire repair kits only provide temporary mobility. You should consult a tire spe- cialist for advice. @ NOTE New sealant and replacement parts can be purchased from your authorized re- pair shop or dealer. Sealant bottles can be disposed with household waste. 247  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN TOWING Precautions During Vehicle Towing with EPB Before towing please ensure EPB is not engaged as it can damage Brake pads and Brake

with EPB Before towing please ensure EPB is not engaged as it can damage Brake pads and Brake components during vehicle tow- ing. 1. EPB should be manually released if battery of the vehicle is healthy during towing and Ignition should be kept in ON state till vehicle reaches to TATA MOTORS EV Authorised Service Cen- tre 2. If vehicle battery is not in healthy state during vehicle towing external power is required for manual release of EPB and ignition should be ON till vehicle reaches to TATA MOTORS EV Autho- rised Service Centre 3. If it is not possible to keep the ignition ON till vehicle reaches to service cen- ter then keep EPB button pressed in release position, Brake paddle pressed and turn off the ignition this will avoid auto engagement of EPB during switching off the ignition. 248 @ NOTE + In case of vehicle is power down EPB cannot be released, External supply is necessary to release the EPB. + It is not recommended to touch/re- move any component of Rear calipers to

to release the EPB. + It is not recommended to touch/re- move any component of Rear calipers to disengage the EPB as it will damage the caliper Compo- nents permanently. AX WARNING DO NOT jump start the vehicle, since it is an EV. If the 12V battery is completely discharged, contact the nearest TATA MOTORS EV Authorised Service Cen- tre Guidelines (Do’s & Don’ts) When towing a break down vehicle, cer- tain precautions and procedures must be taken to prevent damage to the vehicle and/or components. Failure to use stan- dard towing precautionary measures when lifting or towing a break down vehicle could result in an unsafe operating condition. To correctly tow and prevent accidental damage to your vehicle, take help of a TATA MOTORS EV Authorised Service Centre or a commercial tow-truck service. Make sure that the parking brake is re- leased; vehicle is in neutral and steering wheel is unlocked. The power steering functions only when vehicle is running. Hence, during towing the steering

The power steering functions only when vehicle is running. Hence, during towing the steering ef- forts will be more. A\ WARNING * Do not get under your vehicle after it has been lifted by a tow truck. + For towing a vehicle, the best way is to use a wrecker. Alternatively use a rigid tow bar. * Switch ‘ON’ the hazard warning in- dicators of both the vehicles to warn other road users. + Limit the speed to 20-30 kmph.  In case of brake failure, use the parking brake to control the vehicle. Fasten the tow rope or tow bar at the towing eyes. Otherwise, the ve- hicle could be damaged. When towing, pull away slowly and smoothly. If the tractive power is too high, the vehicles could be dam- aged. Tow Hook Fitment Open the tailgate and remove tow hook from the tool kit. Open the tow hook cover provided on the front bumper by pressing it at the bottom part and simultaneously pulling it at the top (as shown in fig). Screw in and tighten the tow hook in clockwise direction. After towing, remove

(as shown in fig). Screw in and tighten the tow hook in clockwise direction. After towing, remove the towing hook and press fit the cover properly. Place the towing hook in the vehicle tool kit. Recommended Towing In case of break down, we recommend that your vehicle be towed with the driving wheels off the ground or place the vehicle on a flatbed truck as shown. A\ WARNING Do not tow your vehicle with the front wheels on the ground or four wheels on the ground (forward or backward), as this may cause seri- ous damage to the transmission. When towing with the rear wheels on the ground or on towing dollies, place the ignition switch in the ‘ACC’ EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN or ‘ON’ position, and secure the steering wheel in the straight-ahead position with a rope or similar de- vice. 249  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN FUSES Your vehicle has fuse boxes at three loca- ions. sustained overload. The vehicles electrical circuits have fuses o protect the wiring from short circuits or 1. Battery Mounted

electrical circuits have fuses o protect the wiring from short circuits or 1. Battery Mounted Fuse Box. 2. Motor Compartment Fuse Box. 3. Cabin Compartment Fuse Box. Checking And Replacing Fuses If any electrical unit in your vehicle is not functioning, check the fuses first. 250 Please follow the steps below that will guide you to check and replace them. Apply parking brake Switch off all electrical accessories. Turn the ignition key to the ‘LOCK’ po- sition. In the fuse box, identify the defective use from its melted wire. Remove the defective fuse by “fuse puller’. The fuse puller and spare fuses are provided in the motor compartment use box. Defective fuses must be replaced with uses of same rating, which you can recognize by color and value. @ NOTE Always make sure that the spare fuses are added. Make sure that all other fuses are pressed firmly in position. If a newly inserted fuse also blows, have the cause traced and rectified at nearest TATA MOTORS EV Authorised Service

fuse also blows, have the cause traced and rectified at nearest TATA MOTORS EV Authorised Service Centre immediately. A\ WARNING If you manipulate or bridge a faulty fuse or if you replace it with a fuse with higher amperage, the electric cables could be overloaded. This could result in a fire. There is a risk of an accident and injury. Always replace faulty fuses with the specified new fuses having the cor- rect amperage.  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN Battery Mounted Fuse Box ZX WARNING @ NOTE If fuse box cover is removed for any The fuse box layout is for reference pur- reason, it should be refitted properly in pose only. Please refer the sticker pro- its original position. vided inside the fuse box cover. Motor Compartment Fuse Box 251  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN Fuses - Motor Compartment on Lvagtd ee) wz ON ty Ala OLLINSI vor ON-ON 54 YOL 118 220d SA vor ON Note: Please refer fuse box sticker on vehicle for more clarity. 252  Under Bonnet Fuse Details EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN Fuse No.

on vehicle for more clarity. 252  Under Bonnet Fuse Details EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN Fuse No. Ratings (Amp) Fuse Type Description F1 60A JCASE COCKPIT F/B SUPPLY F2 40A JCASE COOLING FAN 1 (FAST) F3 5A MINI CENTER LAMP. F4 - - - F5 10A MINI BMS POWER_BATT F6 10A MINI CCS CHARGING PORT FLAP F7 5A MINI VCU_KP SUPPLY_BATT F8 - - - FQ 40A JCASE EV POWERTRAIN F10 60A JCASE EPAS F114 25A JCASE VACUUM PUMP RELAY F12 60A JCASE UNDER BONNET F/R BOX F13 30A MINI MAIN RELAY F14 5A MINI RNDS SWITCH/CHARGER GUN LOCK UNLOCK F15 25A MINI ABS ECU / ESP (SOL.) BATT F16 15A MINI HORN BATT F17 10A MINI BRAKE LAMP BATT F18 40A JCASE ABS / ESP PUMP F19 60A JCASE INTERIOR F/B1 BATT F20 25A JCASE Cooling Fan( Slow) 253  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN Under Bonnet Fuse Details Fuse No. Ratings (Amp) Fuse Type Description F21 - - - F22 30A MIN VCU F23 10A MIN 3 in 1 combo F24 5A MIN ABS ECU IGNITION / ESP IGN F25 5A MIN E-DRIVE/ HV BATT RELAY F26 10A MIN OBD_BATT (FOR PROTO ONLY) F27 5A MIN PT RELAY CONTROL F28 5A

MIN E-DRIVE/ HV BATT RELAY F26 10A MIN OBD_BATT (FOR PROTO ONLY) F27 5A MIN PT RELAY CONTROL F28 5A MIN CHILLER SOLENOID F29 5A MIN EVAPORATOR SOLENOID F30 20A MIN FRONT WIPER MOTOR F31 - - - F32 5A MIN E-DRIVE BATT F33 5A MIN AC compressor F34 10A MIN H/L LOW BEAM LHH F35 10A MIN REVERSE LAMPS F36 10A MIN TRACTION COOLANT PUMP_BATT F37 10A MIN HV BATTERY COLLING PUMP_BATT F38 10A MIN H/L LOW BEAM RH 254  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN Relay No. Function Fuse Rating R1 IGNITION RELAY 40A R2 VCU MAIN RELAY 40A R3 COOLING FAN FAST 1 40A R4 COOLING FAN FAST 2 40A R5 VACUUM PUMP RELAY 40A R6 FRONT WIPER RLY 20A R7 COOLING FAN SLOW 20A R8& INT WIPE/ WIPER ON-OFF 20A RQ DUAL HORN RLY 20A R10 COOLING PUMP _BATT 20A R11 HEAD LAMP LOW RLY 20A R12 - - R13 HV BATT KP ALIVE RELAY 20A R14 - - R15 E-DRIVE BATTERY SUPPLY RLY 20A R16 - - R17 - - R18 LID UNLATCH RELAY 20A R19 REVERSE LAMP RELAY 20A 255  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN Accident Disconnect Fuse In case of an accident, to disconnect the high voltage

AND BREAKDOWN Accident Disconnect Fuse In case of an accident, to disconnect the high voltage battery from the rest of the high voltage electrical components, remove the cover of the fuse and pull out the accident disconnect fuse. The fuse can be identified with a yellow label. AX WARNING In case of Accident/Emergency/Crash, the rescuer or first emergency respon- der may be prone to Electric Hazard. To avoid the Electric hazard, the Power supply to Battery Management System must be disconnected. 256 Follow the steps below to disconnect the power supply from the battery manage- ment system: + Open the fuse box cover located under the bonnet behind the 12V battery without touching any other High Volt- age Components. + Remove the Accident Disconnect 10A fuse. The fuse puller and spare fuses are provided in the motor compartment fuse box + The 10A fuse labelled in yellow color as shown in image. ZX WARNING If Fuse box cover is removed for any reason, it should be refitted properly at its

ZX WARNING If Fuse box cover is removed for any reason, it should be refitted properly at its original position. @ NOTE The fuse box layout is for reference pur- pose only. Please refer the sticker pro- vided inside the fuse box cover. Cabin Compartment Fuse Box Cover Removal Procedure Fuse box is located inside the cover below  steering column. To access the fuse box, remove cover as per procedure given below. 1. Fuse box cover is mounted on dash board with the help of lugs at the top and bottom of the cover from inside. 2. To remove the cover, gently pull the cover from upper side that the lugs get disengaged. Re-fitment Procedure Align bottom lugs and push upper part with respective slots on dash board and press the cover firmly. EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN 257  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN Fuses - Cabin Compartment ¥YO1L93NNOD SUSONDVIG HSLLD SSEUM aves Sam was < $ aaa asad avo TSLLD 614 819 Zid 914 Sid Pld a/velszia O-Stld zoL0n ava] fsivow. Gaddinoa 41: [ ] -ALON s TINGOW TOUL NOD

819 Zid 914 Sid Pld a/velszia O-Stld zoL0n ava] fsivow. Gaddinoa 41: [ ] -ALON s TINGOW TOUL NOD NIVULSIU] S <= Bo NOI OWAT /NOI-Sd34/SW43 z-asng NOI NOI SOLLWINSTEL/SWdY "GASG009/aNOTTEM HLM] NOLWNINNTH LHOTDOYE WO8 GIN -2W28 NaaYDS 14 GL Liva-93 1983/Sd3d /SWOD AVTIY YOLOW ¥3MOTE asta AW1dSIG D1 IAI .SZ°0L PLSMD 2/7 WSLLD Jdis dOL yy Note: Please refer fuse box sticker on vehicle for more clarity. 258  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN Cabin Compartment Fuse Box Details Fuse No Ratings (Amp) Fuse Type Description F1 5A MINI 4/7" CLUSTER/10.25” IVI IC DISPLAY F2 30A MINI BLOWER MOTOR F3A 5A MINI RELAY COILS F3B 10A MINI PEPS/ESCL ECU-BATT F4 25A MINI HEATED REAR SCREEN F5 20A MINI BCM2- MID BCM F6 5A MINI BACKLIGHT ILLU.WITH WELCOME/GOODBYE F7 5A MINI RPAS/TELEMATICS IGN F8 10A MINI IGN FUSE-2 F9 5A MINI EPAS/PEPS-IGN/IMMO IGN F10 10A MINI FATC F11 10A MINI RESTRAINTS CONTROL MODULE F12 15A MINI ACC BATT/OBD F13A 20A MINI INFOTAINMENT 7”GEN 1 F13B 30A MINI INFOTAINMENT CDC 10.25 F14 10A MINI

ACC BATT/OBD F13A 20A MINI INFOTAINMENT 7”GEN 1 F13B 30A MINI INFOTAINMENT CDC 10.25 F14 10A MINI TAILGATE RELEASE F15 15A MINI CDL F16 20A MINI BCM3-MID BCM F17 5A MINI TRANSIT/7” DISS. DIS./IVI DISPLAY INFO 10.25” F18 5A MINI IMMO BATT 259  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN Cabin Compartment Fuse Box Details Ratings (Amp) Fuse Type Description BCM1-MID BCM F20A 5A MINI ACCESSORIES FUSE F20B 5A MINI PEPS F21 - - - F22 10A MINI VENTILATED SEATS (DR.& CO-DR.) F23 20A MINI SUNROOF F24 5A MINI KEY IN F25 5A MINI MIRROR ADJUST MOTOR /WIRELESS CHARGER F26 15A MINI POWER SOCKET-1 F27 10A MINI FRONT DUAL USB CHARGER (A+C) F28 5A MINI TELEMATICS BATT F29 5A MINI WIRELESS CHARGING (IGN) F30 10A MINI REAR WIPER 260  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN Cabin Compartment Fuse Box Relay Details Relay No aa Relay Type Load Passed BUZZER RELAY BUZZER ct1s-B2 20A MICRO RELAY N/O WW. SIGNAL INV. RLY 20A MICRO RELAY N/O HRW RLY C115-C 40A MINI RELAY N/O BLOWER MOTOR 20A MICRO RELAY NO-NC CDL LOCK RLY C115-E 20A MICRO RELAY

C115-C 40A MINI RELAY N/O BLOWER MOTOR 20A MICRO RELAY NO-NC CDL LOCK RLY C115-E 20A MICRO RELAY N/O IGN RLY 20A MICRO RELAY NO-NC CDL UNLOCK RLY C115-F 20A MICRO RELAY N/O TAILGATE RELEASE MOTOR C115-J 40A MINI N/O ACC RELAY-1 20A MICRO RELAY NO-NC REAR WIPER RLY C115-M 20A MICRO RELAY N/O BACKLIGHT ILLU.WITH WELCOMW/GOODBYE 261  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN If An Accident Occurs... If your vehicle is drivable, park your ve- hicle off the road; rotate the gear se- lector knob to “N” and apply the parking brake. If not drivable do not try to start the ve- hicle. Rotate the gear selector knob to N and apply the parking brake. Roll down the windows and open the door locks if possible. If the ‘Ready’ message does not come in the instru- ment cluster, do not try to switch ON the supply by pressing the Start/Stop button. If there is no electrical supply, at-least try to unlock single door manually. If the vehicle ‘Ready’ message flashes in the instrument cluster, press the Start/Stop button to

If the vehicle ‘Ready’ message flashes in the instrument cluster, press the Start/Stop button to turn off the supply, and ensure ‘Ready’ message goes off to verify the high-voltage system is dis- connected. De-latch the bonnet from inside the cabin by pulling the lever to open it. If the lever is not reachable, do not 262 spend time to de-latch the bonnet. Come out of the vehicle and move the smart key at least 2 meters away from the vehicle to avoid any accidental restart or activation of high voltage systems. Try to evacuate the occupants from in- side of the vehicle. Secure vehicle by barricading it, with- out touching the vehicle. Inform the TATA MOTORS Roadside- Assistance immediately. Do not touch the vehicle. Keep a safe distance. WARNING Do not touch electric wires that may become exposed from inside or out- side the vehicle, high voltage elec- tric wires (orange), connectors and any exposed electric components and devices. Doing so may result in electric shock and lead to

and any exposed electric components and devices. Doing so may result in electric shock and lead to injuries or even death. If you observe any coolant leaks and rupture in refrigerant lines, do not drive the vehicle and contact TATA MOTORS Roadside Assis- tance. If the vehicle switches off after an accident, come out of the vehicle immediately without touching any metal parts. Leaks or damage to the Li-ion bat- tery may result in a fire. If you dis- cover them, contact emergency services immediately. Never touch the fluid leaked inside or outside the vehicle. If the fluid contacts with your skin or eyes, wash it off imme- diately with a large amount of water or saline solution and receive imme- diate medical attention to help avoid serious injury. If water enters inside the vehicle: If your vehicle is flooded or if water has soaked the carpets, you should not try to start the vehicle. Never touch the high voltage cables, con  nectors and package modules, be- cause an electric shock may

touch the high voltage cables, con  nectors and package modules, be- cause an electric shock may occur causing injury or death. (High volt- age components are orange in colour) + If asubmersion in water occurs: Do not touch your vehicle, if the vehicle has been submerged in water. The high voltage battery may cause shock or may catch fire. Immedi- ately contact the authorities and ad- vise them of the condition of your vehicle and that an electric vehicle is involved. If a small scale fire occurs, use a fire ex- tinguisher (C, ABC, BC) that is meant for electrical fires. If it is impossible to extin- guish the fire in the early stage, remain a safe distance from the vehicle and imme- diately call the authorities. Also, advise them that an electric vehicle is involved. When approaching a high voltage vehicle in a situation of fire, rescue or recovery, follow the standard rule: + Always assume the high-voltage sys- tem is live in the vehicle. Only High Voltage System trained per- sonnel

the high-voltage sys- tem is live in the vehicle. Only High Voltage System trained per- sonnel with necessary high voltage PPEs (hand gloves, electrical safety shoes, etc.,) should access and analyse the EV after all occupants are safely evacuated. EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN Emergency Shut OFF System When vehicle detects any fault in HV sys- tem, it activates the emergency shut OFF for safety purpose. Even if the gear knob is in Drive mode, the system may shut- OFF suddenly. In this case, contact the nearest TATA MOTORS EV Authorised Service Centre to rectify the issue. In Case of Emergency If the vehicle stalls at a crossroad or cross- ing, rotate the rotary knob to N (Neutral) position and then push the vehicle to a safe place If The Vehicle Stalls While Driving + Reduce your speed gradually, keeping a straight line. Move cautiously off the road to a safe place. + Turn on the hazard lamps. + Try to start the vehicle again. If your vehicle will not start, contact TATA MO- TORS EV

lamps. + Try to start the vehicle again. If your vehicle will not start, contact TATA MO- TORS EV Authorised Service Centre or seek other qualified assistance. + Since this vehicle runs on electric power, it generates little sound. Be aware of your driving environment and 263  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN drive safely. + After you park the vehicle or while you are waiting at a traffic light, check whether there are kids or obstacles around the vehicle. * Check if there is something behind the vehicle when driving in reverse. Pedestrians may not hear the sound of the vehicle. 264  BULB SPECIFICATIONS EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN Sn. Description Rating Type Qty. 6.5 LED (HV) Domi LED DWA -HKG27 (HV) 1 TAIL/POSITION 12v.8W P2IWISW (LV) 2 2 STOP LAMP 5.76 LED (HV) Domi PO{WISW (LV) (HV) 2 12V,21W(LV) REVERSE LAMP (TAIL 3 LAMP) (Option - 1) 12V,16W wiew 2 4 REAR TURN 12V.21W wy2iw 2 5 HMSL 12V, 5W Wow 5 6 GLOVE BOX LAMP 12V, 5W Wow 1 REVERSE LAMP 7 (TAIL LAMP) 12V, 21W P21W 1 (Option - 2) 8 PUDDLE

5 6 GLOVE BOX LAMP 12V, 5W Wow 1 REVERSE LAMP 7 (TAIL LAMP) 12V, 21W P21W 1 (Option - 2) 8 PUDDLE LAMP 12V, 5W Wow 2 LUGGAGE COMPART- 9 MENT LAMP 12V, 5W wsw 1 265  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN 24 X 7 ROADSIDE ASSISTANCE Dear Customer, It is our responsibility and our endeavor to ensure that you have our complete service backup if ever, wherever and whenever you need the same. When you have a road network that spans wide area, the probability of a breakdown happening within hailing distance of a TATA MOTORS EV Authorised Service Centre is very low. It is precisely for this reason, we have tied up with TVS AA, who will provide break- down assistance including towing to the nearest TATA MOTORS EV Authorised Service Centre through their Authorized Service Providers (ASP). The 24X7 On Roadside Assistance Pro- gram shall be automatically available to your vehicle for the duration of Warranty period. The program shall also be avail- able, if you avail the same post warranty. 266 Response Time **

The program shall also be avail- able, if you avail the same post warranty. 266 Response Time ** for the On Roadside Assistance Program Within City Limits On State or Na- tional Highways Ghat Roads and other places States of North- East, J&K and Hi- machal 60 minutes 90 minutes 120 minutes +/- Same Day (Within 24 Hrs) ** (The response time will depend on the location, terrain, traffic density and the ime of the day.) Standard Procedure When Calling For Roadside Assistance In Case Of A Breakdown * Dial the toll free help line number — 1800 209 8282 + Identify your vehicle with the Vehicle chassis number that is available in the Owner’s Manual. «Explain your exact location with land- marks and tell us about the problem you face with the vehicle. * Park your vehicle on the edge of the road, open the bonnet and put on the hazard warning signal. + Place the advance warning triangle supplied with the vehicle approx. 3 m from the vehicle in the direction of on- coming traffic. @ 24x7

with the vehicle approx. 3 m from the vehicle in the direction of on- coming traffic. @ 24x7 ROADSIDE ASSISTANCE 1800 209 8282 Coverage Under 24 X7 Roadside As- sistance Program |. The 24x7 Roadside Assistance Pro- gram Service covers the following services on your vehicle during warranty period.  « Wheel change through spare wheel. * Re-opening the vehicle in cases of key lock out. * Rectification of electrical problems re- lated to battery, fuses etc. * On spot repairs for complaints re- pairable at site. “ * Vehicle to vehicle towing or winching & towing for non-accident cases up to the nearest TATA MOTORS EV Au- thorized Dealer/Service Center. Tow- ing charges at actual cost beyond the same to be paid to the ASP in cash/on- line. (Any ferry or toll charges levied in relation to the vehicle being towed to be paid by the customers in actuals in cash/online). For accident cases, towing charges to be borne by the customer. ll. The 24x7 Roadside Assistance Pro- gram coverage on

towing charges to be borne by the customer. ll. The 24x7 Roadside Assistance Pro- gram coverage on availing the 24X7 pol- icy, post warranty is upto maximum of 6 instance of assistance in one year for both the plans- Basic and Premium. In the pre- mium plan, this includes 2 instances of towing up to the nearest TATA MOTORS EV Authorised Service Centre. Exclusions 24 X 7 Roadside Assistance Program does not apply to * Cost of parts consumables and labor for such repairs not covered under warranty*. These charges are to be settled with ASP in cash/online. * Toll or ferry charges paid by ASP in reaching to the breakdown site to be settled with ASP in actuals in cash/on- line. * Cases involving accident, fire, theft, vandalism, riots, lightening, earth- quake, windstorm, hail, tsunami, un- usual weather conditions, other acts of God, flood, etc. + Vehicles that are unattended, un-reg- istered, impounded or abandoned. * Breakdown/defects caused by misuse, abuse, negligence, alterations or

impounded or abandoned. * Breakdown/defects caused by misuse, abuse, negligence, alterations or mod- ifications made to the vehicle. * Lack of maintenance as per the main- tenance schedule as detailed in the owner’s manual. EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN * Cases involving racing, rallies, vehicle testing or practice for such events. Disclaimer * The Service is not available in Lak- shadweep. **The reach time is indica- tive & the actual reach time will be conveyed by the call center at the time of breakdown call. * The reach time can vary depending on the traffic density & time of the day. * The reach time indicated does not ac- count for delays due to but not limited to acts of God, laws, rules & regula- tions for time being in force, orders of statutory or Govt. authorities, industrial disputes, inclement weather, heavy down pour, floods, storms, natural calamities, road blocks due to acci- dents, general strife and law & order conditions viz. fire, arson, riots, strikes, terrorist

acci- dents, general strife and law & order conditions viz. fire, arson, riots, strikes, terrorist attacks, war etc. ¢ 4 On spot repairs at breakdown site shall depend on nature of complaints & will be as per the discretion of the ASP. ¢« * The decision for free of charge re- 267  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN pairs will be as per the warranty policy & procedures of TATA PASSENGER ELECTRIC MOBILITY LTD. and as per the interpretation of the same by ASP. You will be duly informed by the ASP & call center for the change applicable if any. + All charges wherever applicable need to be settled directly with the ASP. Exclusion of Liabilities + It is understood that TATA MOTORS shall be under no liability whatsoever in respect of any loss or damage aris- ing directly or indirectly out of any delay in or non-delivery of, defect/defi- ciency in service/parts provided by ASP. + Incase vehicle cannot be repaired on- site, customers are advised to use the towing facility for taking their vehicle to the

repaired on- site, customers are advised to use the towing facility for taking their vehicle to the nearest TATA MOTORS EV Autho- rised Service Centre only. In no condi- tion shall the vehicle be towed to any TATA MOTORS EV Authorised Service Centre. TATA MOTORS will not be re- sponsible for any repairs carried out in 268 such unauthorized workshop. Customer are advised to take acknowl- edgment from the ASP for the list of ac- cessories/extra fittings and other belongings in the vehicle as well as the current condition related to dents/scratches breakages of parts/fit- ments of the vehicle at the time of ASP aking possession of the vehicle & to verify these items when delivery is ken back by them, Claim for loss of or damage to items, if any should be aken up with ASP directly. TATA MO- TORS shall not be responsible for any such claims, damages/loss or any de- iciency of service of the ASP. Vehicles will be handled, repaired & owed as per the customer’s risk & TATA MOTORS shall not be

Vehicles will be handled, repaired & owed as per the customer’s risk & TATA MOTORS shall not be liable for any damages / claims as a result of the same. Services entitled to the customers can be refused or cancelled on account of abusive behavior, fraudulent represen- ation, malicious intent and refusal to pay the charges for any charges re- lated services and spare parts during service or on previous occasions on part of the customer. On site repairs may be temporary in nature. The completion of repairs does not certify the road worthiness of the vehicle. The customer is advised to en- sure temporary repairs carried out on- site is followed by permanent repairs at a TATA MOTORS EV Authorised Service Centre at the earliest. Terms and conditions and service coverage, exclusions etc. are subject to change without notice.  LUBRICANT SPECIFICATIONS Use following genuine fluids, coolants and lubricants recommended for optimum performance of your vehicle. Item TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS

and lubricants recommended for optimum performance of your vehicle. Item TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS Specification Company Brand Qty. Coolant (Pre- . SUNSTAR CCI Golden C: LLC 2200NP mixed) (Antifreeze Class II/JIS K2234 orgen STulser BCS 4.6L agent +Soft water TATA SS7700S1 IOCL TATA MOTORS GENUINE TCS 3.5L 40:60 ratio) COOLANT KOOL PLUS Transaxle Oil Bot 350M SAE 75W Castrol Castrol Option 1-0.9L Option Il - 1.3L PETRONAS TATA MOTORS. PETRONAS Gen uine Brake Oil DOT 4S Brake Fluid DOT 4 Golden Cruiser TATA Genuine Sunstar CCI Brake Fluid (DOTA) 650 ml CASTROL Optional - CASTROL-Universal Brake Fluid DOT 4 Refrigerant R-134a - - 540+20 gms or Compressor | 7EROL ESTER 68 HYBRID oil Shrive ZERO ESTER 68H 150+10 ml Sunroof Grease MULTEMP 20194 — _ As required 269  TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS VEHICLE SPECIFICATIONS Parameter Punch EV Powertrain Battery Option | - 35 kWh Li-ion Option II - 25 kWh Li-ion Electric motor Permanent magnet synchronous motor Nominal voltage 320 V . Option | - 90 kW

Li-ion Electric motor Permanent magnet synchronous motor Nominal voltage 320 V . Option | - 90 kW Maximum power, kW Option Il - 6OkW Maximum torque, Nm Option | - 190 Nm Option Il - 114 Nm Transaxle Model and Type Electric Vehicle Transaxle No. Of gears Single speed, 1 Forward Drive + 1 Reverse Drive Steering Type Column Mounted Electric Power Assisted Steering System Brakes Brakes Option | - Front (Disc); Rear (Disc) Option II - Front (Disc); Rear (Drum) Parking brake Option | - Automatic Parking Brake Option II - Cable Operated Mechanical (Variable Lever Ratio) Shock absorber Front and Rear Double acting telescopic type; Hydraulic gas filled 270  TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS meter Punch EV Suspension Front Independent, lower wishbone , Mcpherson strut with coil spring Rear Semi-Independent twist beam with coil spring and shock ab- sorber Wheels & Tyre Tyres Option | :195/60 R16 (Radial-Tubeless); Option II :185/70 R15 (Radial-Tubeless); Option |: 5.5J x 15”Std. steel wheel Option II:

Option II :185/70 R15 (Radial-Tubeless); Option |: 5.5J x 15”Std. steel wheel Option II: 5.5J x 15” Hyper style steel wheel Wheel rims Option Ill: 6J x 16” Std. steel wheel Option IV: 6J x 16” Hyper style steel wheel Option V :6J x 16” Alloy wheel Cab / Body Type Steel Monocoque Body Electrical System System voltage 12 Volts Auxiliary battery 12V DIN 40 Ah Main Chassis Dimension (in mm) Wheel base, mm 2445 Track front, mm 1510 Track rear, mm 1510 Overall length, mm 3857 271  TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS Parameter Punch EV Overall height, mm Unladen - 1633 Max. Width, mm 1742 Ground clearance, mm Laden - 155 Performance Max. Speed Option | -140 Kmph, Option II - 110 Kmph Max. Recommended grad ability Option | -17.85 Degrees, Option II - 15.48 Degrees Minimum Turning Circle Dia. in meter as per 1S:12222 10m Minimum Turning Clearance circle dia. in meters as per 1$:12222 ° ° 10.65 m Weight Gross vehicle weight (Laden), kg 1627 - 1770 Kerb weight (unladen), kg 1217 - 1360 272  TECHNICAL

Gross vehicle weight (Laden), kg 1627 - 1770 Kerb weight (unladen), kg 1217 - 1360 272  TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS VEHICLE DIMENSIONS 1510 NOTE: Dimensions are in mm unladen condition 273  TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS AGGREGATE IDENTIFICATION Chassis No. punching near driver seat VIN plate near co-driver seat 274  SERVICE INSTRUCTIONS The TATA PUNCH EV has been manufactured to give you eco- nomical and trouble free performance. To achieve this, please fol- low the instructions as stated. Your vehicle is entitled to three free services (labour only). The free service coupons are attached to the sales invoice. Please present these coupons to the servicing dealer while availing free services. 1st free service - At 1000-2000 kms. OR 2 months, whichever is earlier. 2nd free service - At 7000-8000 kms. OR 6 months, whichever is earlier. 3rd free service - At 14500-15500 kms. OR 12 months, whichever is earlier. All services other than free services are chargeable. MAINTENANCE AND CARE Servicing of

is earlier. All services other than free services are chargeable. MAINTENANCE AND CARE Servicing of the vehicle can be done at any TATA MOTORS EV Authorised Dealer Workshop or TATA MOTORS EV Authorised Service Centre (TASC). Warranty claims can be settled by any TATA MOTORS EV Autho- rised Dealer Workshop or TATA MOTORS EV Authorised Service Centre (TASC). 275  MAINTENANCE AND CARE SERVICE SCHEDULE Operation 102 127.5k 114 142.5k General 1 Wash the vehicle & Clean Even e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e Radiator Fins Service Check & Top up Fluids (If required): Transaxle Oil, PDI & 2 |Coolant, Brake Fluid, LV Every |e}e;/e;/el/ele/e;el/elele/e;/elelel/e/es;elele/eje Battery Electrolyte, Wind | Service Screen washer fluid Check HV Battery box PDI & 3 |under the vehicle for Every |e}e;/e;/el/elel/e;el/elelel/e;/elelel/el/es;elele/e/je cracks/leakages Service Inspect and clean (If re- Every 4 |quired) HV Battery . elelelelel/el/ej/e}/el/e;elelejel/eje/e}/ele;eje Service breather

re- Every 4 |quired) HV Battery . elelelelel/el/ej/e}/el/e;elelejel/eje/e}/ele;eje Service breather plug Check all the HV cables PDI & 5 |for looseness, cuts, wear Every |e}e;/e;/el/ele/e;sel/elele/e;/el/elel/e/es;elele/eje & tear Service 276  Operation Clean Charging socket area properly and com- pressed air need to be useed to clean dust around hing area of Charging Port Housing lid. PDI & Every Service MAINTENANCE AND CARE x LO i N SS N (=) = 114 142.5k Inspect cooling systems (Battery cooling system (BCS) and Traction cool- ing system (TCS)) PDI & Every Service Change coolant (Battery cooling system (BCS) and Traction cooling system (TCS)) # 60K/ 36M Check and Capture all DTC’s Clear all faults and Erase the Codes PDI & Every Service 10 Check condition of rubber bushes/parts in lower con -trol arms, front and rear 7.5K/ 6M 277  MAINTENANCE AND CARE Operation coil spring seats, front & rear bump stoppers, anti roll bar links, rear twist beam. x Cy N + oS st oS Se 11 Check All door

& rear bump stoppers, anti roll bar links, rear twist beam. x Cy N + oS st oS Se 11 Check All door latch & striker operations , Adjust If required 15K/ 12M 12 Check for all bolts & nuts (Tighten). For severe usage, above checks to be done at every 5,000 km or after every severe usage event. 7.5K/ 6M 13 Check for tightening torque of all bolts & nuts of cradle FEM frame &A mount stud nyloc nut , B and C mount fastners PDI & Every Service 278  Operation Brakes MAINTENANCE AND CARE x LO i N SS N (=) = 114 142.5k 14 Check front & rear brake pads. Replace if neces- sary 15K/ 12M 15 Replace brake fluid , Check brake system com- ponents for Leakages # 45K/ 24M 16 Inspect and if necessary adjust handbrake setting(First check @7.5K/6M then after every 15K/12M) # 15K/ 12M Wheels & Tyres 17 Check & adjust wheel alignment (For severe usage, above checks to be done at every 5,000 km or after every severe usage event). # 15K/ 12M 279  MAINTENANCE AND CARE Operation x Cy N + oS st oS Se 18 Check for

usage event). # 15K/ 12M 279  MAINTENANCE AND CARE Operation x Cy N + oS st oS Se 18 Check for Tyre pressure, # 7.5K/ ° condition & rotate 6M Transaxle 19 Oil change interval (First # 30K/ at 7.5K / 6M) 24M Electrical Check specific gravity of 7.5K/ 20 | battery electrolyte for 12V e Aux. battery 6M . 15K/ 21 |Check headlamp focusing 12M A.C. System Check Air-conditioning / PDI & 22 |HVAC System for satisfac- | Every e tory performance Service 23 Replace Combi / PM2.5 fil-|_ 15K/ ter 12M 280  MAINTENANCE AND CARE x x in in a@e¢g Operation = = N x = = Exterior Trim Greasing of the Charging PDI & 24 |Port Housing lid mecha- 15K/12 | e e e e e e ° ° e ° e nism M # Kms or months whichever occurs earlier, Note - Additionally, Tyre pressure to be checked every 15 days * More frequently for vehicle, operating in severe condition Severe conditions as below- A: Repeatedly driving short distance of less than 7 km. B: Extensive low speed driving for long distances. C: Driving on rough, dusty,

of less than 7 km. B: Extensive low speed driving for long distances. C: Driving on rough, dusty, muddy, unpaved, graveled or salt-spread roads. D-Frequently Driving in heavy traffic area & in stop & go condition E-Driving only on uphill, downhill, or mountain roads. F: Vehicle towing, driving for petrol car, taxi, or other commercial use G: Frequently driving under high speed & acceleration. 281  MAINTENANCE AND CARE MOTOR COMPARTMENT > == 1. Brake Fluid Reservoir . Coolant Tank . High Voltage Components . Battery Mounted Fuse Box . Low Voltage Battery . Windshield Washer Container a a fF WN 282  BRAKE FLUID LEVEL Spillage, wipe it off immediately. For more clarity about location of Brake Fluid Container and filling cap, please refer respective motor Compartment. The level of the brake fluid should be be- tween the ‘MIN’ and ‘MAX’ marks provided on the side of the brake fluid container. If the level falls below the ‘MIN’ mark, add recommended brake fluid. + Do not allow brake fluid

If the level falls below the ‘MIN’ mark, add recommended brake fluid. + Do not allow brake fluid to make contact with the skin or eyes. * Do not allow brake fluid to splash or spill on the paint surface as it will damage the paint. In case of MAINTENANCE AND CARE WINDSHIELD WASHER FLUID LEVEL Examine if there is washer fluid in the tank. Fill it if necessary. Use a good quality fluid, diluted with water as necessary. NOTE + Do not use detergent or any other additive in the windshield washer reservoir. This can severely impair visibility when sprayed on the wind- shield, and can also damage your vehicle’s paint. 283  MAINTENANCE AND CARE + Do not operate washer motor with no fluid in washer tank, washer motor will be damaged. For more clarity about location of Wind- shield Washer Container and filling cap, please refer image of the respec- tive motor Compartment. 284 12V BATTERY Examine the battery for electrolyte level against the marking on the bat- tery outer case. Examine the

the battery for electrolyte level against the marking on the bat- tery outer case. Examine the battery terminals for cor- rosion (a white or yellowish powder). To remove it, wash the terminals with a solution of baking soda. It will bubble up and turn brown. When this stops, wash it off with plain water. Dry off the battery with a clo! or paper towel. Apply petroleum jelly to the terminals to prevent further corrosion. > Use a proper wrench to loosen and re- move cables from the terminals. Always disconnect the negative (-ve) cable first and reconnect it last. If your vehicle is equipped with Battery Sensor, then disconnect only the Sen- sor Output Cable. Do not remove the Sensor, Sensor connector completely as this will result into Sensor function loss temporarily. Sensor functionality will be restored when the Vehicle is parked for 3-4 hours without any oper- ation. Clean the battery terminals with a ter- minal cleaning tool or wire brush. Reconnect and tighten the cables, coat the

terminals with a ter- minal cleaning tool or wire brush. Reconnect and tighten the cables, coat the terminals with petroleum jelly. Make sure that the battery is securely mounted. If you need to connect the battery toa charger, disconnect both cables to pre- vent damage to the vehicle’s electrical system. If your vehicle is equipped with Battery Sensor, connect the jump start leads on output terminal of Battery Sensor. Do not connect the jump start leads on Sensor surface or Battery terminal. This will result of function loss of Bat- tery sensor. Refer the below Battery Sensor image for do’s and don'ts.  For location of battery, please refer image of the respective motor Com- partment. @ NOTE Use only authorized Battery recom- mended by TATA MOTORS. Use of any other unauthorized Battery will result into Intelligent Alternator Control (IAC) function detoriation. MAINTENANCE AND CARE During normal operation, the battery generates gas which is explosive in nature. A spark or open flame

normal operation, the battery generates gas which is explosive in nature. A spark or open flame can cause the battery to explode caus- ing very serious injuries. Keep all sparks, open flames and smoking materials away from the battery. The battery contains sulphuric acid (electrolyte) which is poisonous and highly corrosive in nature. Getting electrolyte in your eyes or on the skin can cause severe burns. Wear protective clothing and a face shield or have a skilled technician to do the battery maintenance. 285  MAINTENANCE AND CARE TYRES 1 2 UNDER INFLATION @) CORRECT Y 3 OVER INFLATION @) Under inflation Excessive side tread wear Correct tyre pressure Uniform wear Over inflation Excessive cen- ter tread wear 286 Inflation Check for inflation and condition of your vehicle tyres periodically. Check the pressure in the tyres when they are cold. Keeping the tyres properly inflated gives you the best combination of riding comfort, handling, tyre life and better energy effi- ciency. Over

the best combination of riding comfort, handling, tyre life and better energy effi- ciency. Over inflation of tyres makes the vehicle ride bumpy and harsh. Tyres are more prone to uneven wear and damage from road hazards. Under inflated tyres reduce your comfort in vehicle handling and are prone to fail- ures due to high temperature. They also cause uneven wear and more energy con- sumption. @ NOTE Every time you check inflation pressure, you should also examine tyres for un- even wear, damage and trapping of for- eign objects in the treads and wear. Recommended Tyre Pressures @ NOTE Kindly refer Tyre pressure as indicated on tyre pressure sticker provided on ve- hicle (near driver seat )  Tyre Rotation To help increase tyre life rotated at spec- ified intervals or earlier depending on the operation of vehicle. The illustrations shows how to rotate tyres without spare wheel. @ NOTE + Do not use spare wheel for tyre ro- tation, in case of temporary spare wheel used. * Two or more

+ Do not use spare wheel for tyre ro- tation, in case of temporary spare wheel used. * Two or more temporary tyres should not be used on one vehicle. * Tyre pressure to be checked every 15 days. + Tyre pressure of temporary wheel is to be checked at least once in in a month. Wheel Alignment And Balancing Alignment Incorrect wheel alignment causes exces- sive and uneven tyre wear. Check wheel alignment at specified intervals. Balancing Wheels of your vehicle are balanced for better ride comfort and longer tyre life. Bal- ancing needs to be done whenever tyre is removed from rim. AX WARNING If the vehicle vibrates abnormally on a smooth road, have the wheel balanced done immediately. MAINTENANCE AND CARE Special Care For Tubeless Tyres + When you remove the tyre and install it back on the rim, take precautions not to damage tyre bead. Use tyre removal and assembly machines. Damage or cut on tyre bead may cause gradual loss of air and deflation of tyre. + Do not scratch the inner surface

tyre bead may cause gradual loss of air and deflation of tyre. + Do not scratch the inner surface of tubeless tyre with metallic or sharp ob- ject. Tubeless tyres are coated with im- permeable layer of rubber from the inner surface which holds the air in the tyre. Removal of this layer due to scratching may cause gradual loss of air and deflation. + If wheel rim gets damaged in service, get the wheel rim repaired/ replaced immediately. Running the vehicle with damaged rim may cause deflation of tyre and subsequent dislodging of tyre from rim. * Keep the recommended inflation pres- sure. Over-inflation, in particular, may cause puncture or bursting of tyre. 287  MAINTENANCE AND CARE @ NOTE Life and wear pattern of tyres depends on various parameters like tyre pres- sure, wheel alignment, wheel balanc- ing, tyre rotation, etc. It also largely depends on vehicle speed, load carried, usage, driving habits, road conditions, tyre quality, etc. In case fault is sus- pected to be due to poor

driving habits, road conditions, tyre quality, etc. In case fault is sus- pected to be due to poor quality of tyres, the same may be taken up with con- cerned tyre manufacturer. Tyre Equipment Summer tires have a tread designed to provide superior performance on dry pave- ment. However, the performance of these tyres will be substantially reduced in wet conditions. If you operate your vehicle on wet roads, use all season tyres for all four wheels Special Winter Equipment It is recommended that the following items be carried in the vehicle during winter: + Ascraper and stiff-bristled brush to re- move ice and snow from the windows 288 and wiper blades. Ashovel to dig the vehicle out of snow- drifts. Extra windshield-washer fluid to refill the reservoir tank VEHICLE PARKING for LONG DU- RATION (NON - USE MAINTE- NANCE) If you want to park your vehicle at one place for long duration, following care is to be taken: 1. Park the vehicle in covered, dry and if possible well-ventilated

following care is to be taken: 1. Park the vehicle in covered, dry and if possible well-ventilated premises. En- gage a gear. 2. Remove the battery terminal cables (first remove the cable from the nega- tive terminal). Ensure that battery is fully charged. 3. Use wheel chocks to prevent move- ment of the car. 4. Clean and protect the painted parts using protective wax. 5. Clean and protect the shiny metal parts using commercially available special compounds. 6. Sprinkle talcum powder on the rubber windscreen wiper and lift them off the glass. 7. Slightly open the windows.  8. 10. Cover the vehicle with a cloth or perfo- rated plastic sheet. Do not use sheets of imperforated plastic as they do not allow moisture on the vehicle body to evaporate. Inflate the tyres to 0.5 bar above the normal specified pressure and check it at regular intervals. Check the battery charge every six weeks. SMART KEY BATTERY REPLACE- MENT (For PEPS variant) Procedure 1. Open rear side of key (battery cover).

KEY BATTERY REPLACE- MENT (For PEPS variant) Procedure 1. Open rear side of key (battery cover). 2. Replace with new battery in the smart key battery slot. 3. Ensure that the “+” symbol on the bat- tery is facing upwards. The correct po- larity is shown on the battery cover. 4. Close the battery cover. 5. Make sure that the key cover is intact properly. MAINTENANCE AND CARE @ NOTE Use CR 2032 battery only. An inappropriately disposed battery can be harmful to the environment and human health. Dispose the bat- tery according to your local law(s) and regulation. 289  MAINTENANCE AND CARE ON BOARD DIAGNOSTIC (OBD Il) SYSTEM On board diagnostic located in cabin compartment fuse box. The OBD system also has a diagnostic connector that canbe in- _ (refer below image) terfaced with appropriate diagnostic tools, which makes it wl . . nr c1is-¢ C158 possible to read the fault codes stored in the Electronic Control ese ea : F : - Bower nn Unit, together with a series of specific parameters for

Electronic Control ese ea : F : - Bower nn Unit, together with a series of specific parameters for Motor op- FUP CUSTER MOTOR a - . : . . . FIT 10.25" ic pispray | 5% c < eration and Diagnosis. This check can also be carried out by aa a the traffic police. To access the diagnostic connector, open the | amoueworoes ean wn E cockpit fuse box cover, which is located on RH side below the Faro] pepe Soueart | 10K ees ema steering wheel. re | RAT Tosa wa | co] rol eB | = 5 | acwe-mioscm | 208 fm |'my | fase] cx | 2 = | | wy |S | BSTEBATES | gq ENS Sere i ENT Sa re [tewrusea | 10a | ro] Pinon | 54 cuss cust an Aarwasria ris 6 FI7 HEF [Foy AeA 8 | LS | 34 Fy H ie lH] Mule. fatka?} ESE Fs g & 8 ge salt |r0a [isa 2oa| sal sa 20a Toa [iow cist cuss ==> DIAGNOSTIC acc CONNECTOR RELAY-1 NOTE: [ ]: IF EQUIPPED 290  DO IT YOURSELF Daily Checks Tyres for unusual wear, cracks or dam- age and embedded foreign material such as nails, stones, etc. Traces of fluid and oil below vehicle. There is

foreign material such as nails, stones, etc. Traces of fluid and oil below vehicle. There is sufficient charging for the trip. Windshield, windows, mirrors, lights, and reflectors are clean and unob- structed. All lamps, wipers, wiper blades and horn for proper operation. All switches, gauges and tell tales are working properly. All doors, motor compartment and tail- gate are securely closed and latched. All doors and tail gate are securely closed and latched. Tool kit, jack & handle, warning trian- gle, owner’s manual, first aid kit and vehicle documents are available and stored at their locations. Tool kit, jack & handle, warning triangle, owner’s manual, first aid kit and vehicle docu- ments are available and stored at their locations. @ NOTE Water dripping below the car is normal. This is due to the usage of air condition- ing system. Weekly Checks * Coolant level * Brake fluid level * Windshield washer fluid level + Battery electrolyte leve @ NOTE Tyre pressure always be measured

* Windshield washer fluid level + Battery electrolyte leve @ NOTE Tyre pressure always be measured in cold conditions. Do a check of tyre pres- sure and condition after every 15 days, including the spare tyre. Brake Hoses And Lines Visually check for proper installation, chaf- ing, cracks, deterioration and any leakage. Replace any deteriorated or damaged parts immediately. MAINTENANCE AND CARE Replacing The Components of Your EV Since the electrical components of the ve- hicle are not user serviceable, it is recom- mended that you approach your nearest TATA MOTORS EV Authorised Service Centre to replace any electrical compo- nents of the car. 291  MAINTENANCE AND CARE CAR CARE Your vehicle is subjected to many external influences such as climate, road condi- tions, industrial pollution and proximity to the sea. These conditions demand regular care of the vehicle body. Dirt, insects, bird droppings, oil, grease and stone chippings should be removed as soon as possible. Washing

bird droppings, oil, grease and stone chippings should be removed as soon as possible. Washing Following these tips while washing your vehicle. 1. Do not wash vehicle underbody with direct jet, also don’t wash the under bonnet area with water 2. Always wash your vehicle in shade and the surface is at room tempera- ture. 3. Wash with mild vehicle wash soap like ‘Car Shampoo’ and use a soft bristle brush, sponge or soft cloth and rinse it frequently while washing to avoid scratches. 4. To avoid scratches, please wear soft gloves. Remove finger rings, nails, wrist watch while washing. 292 5. To remove stubborn stains and con- aminants like tar, use turpentine or cleaners like ‘Stain remover’ which are safe for paint surfaces. 6. Avoid substances like petrol, diesel, erosene, benzene, thinner, ac-ids or other solvents that cause damage to paint. 7. Dry your vehicle thoroughly to prevent any damp spots. 8. Rinse all surfaces thoroughly to pre- vent any traces of soap and other cleaners as

damp spots. 8. Rinse all surfaces thoroughly to pre- vent any traces of soap and other cleaners as this may lead to the forma- ion of stains on the painted surface ater. @ NOTE + Avoid parking the car under trees without proper cover, it will reduce the amount of bird droppings, tree sap and pollen contact on paint sur- face. Regularly remove the twigs, leaves and vegetation near the windshield areas, to avoid water stagnation. + Always close the sunroof while washing the vehicle. A\ WARNING Do not direct high pressure washer fluid/ water jets (Pressure above 0.5 bar) at electrical devices and connecter during washing. This is to prevent mal- function / failure of electrical system due to water ingress. After drying the vehicle, inspect it for chips and scratches that could allow corrosion to start. Apply touch up paint where nec- essary. Cleaning of Carpets Vacuum clean the carpet regularly to re- move dirt. Dirt will make the carpet wear out faster. Periodically, shampoo the car-

to re- move dirt. Dirt will make the carpet wear out faster. Periodically, shampoo the car- pet to keep it looking new. Use carpet cleaners (preferably foam type). Follow the instructions that come with the cleaner. Apply it with a sponge or soft brush. Keep the carpeting as dry as possible by not adding water to the foam.  Avoid wiping of painted surface in dry condition as it may leave scratches on the painted surface. Cleaning of Windows, Front and Rear Glasses Clean the windows inside and outside with commercially available glass cleaners. This will remove the haze that builds up on the inside of windows. Use a soft cloth or paper towels to clean all glass and plastic surfaces. Waxing Waxing and polishing is recommended to maintain the gloss and wet-look appear- ance of your paint finish. 1. Use good quality polish and wax for your vehicle. 2. Re-wax your vehicle when the water does not slip off the surface but col- lects over the surface in patches. Polishing Polishes and

does not slip off the surface but col- lects over the surface in patches. Polishing Polishes and cleaners can restore shine to the painted surface that has oxidized and become dull. They normally contain mild abrasives and solvents that remove the top layer of the finish coat. Polish your ve- hicle, if the finish does not regain its origi- nal shine after using wax. Interior Fabric Cleaning Tips 1. Stains should be treated immediately. If left for a long time, they can leave a permanent mark. 2. Cleaning the stains immediately is im- portant especially for stains, which contain artificial colors in the stain cre- ating liquid or semisolid substance. The colorant may leave a stain if kept for longer time. 3. Stain should not be removed by rub- bing. As far as possible, try to blot or lift the stain with cloth or plastic spatula and then clean the remaining stain with cloth or sponge. 4. Ifthe stain has dried, then gently brush off the material and then press with MAINTENANCE AND CARE

Ifthe stain has dried, then gently brush off the material and then press with MAINTENANCE AND CARE damp cloth or sponge till it disappears. 5. Do not use household detergents to clean the fabric. 6. Always use clean cotton cloth for cleaning. Paint Care Following guidelines will help you to pro- tect your vehicle from corrosion effectively. @ NOTE Avoid Spillage or Direct contact of Air freshener liquid/chemicals with painted plastic parts. These chemicals may cause damage to paint like blisters, peel off, wrinkles etc. Proper Cleaning In order to protect your vehicle from corro- sion it is recommended that you wash your vehicle thoroughly and frequently in case: + There is a heavy accumulation of dirt and mud especially on the underbody. + It is driven in areas having high atmos- pheric pollution due to smoke, soot, dust, iron dust and other chemical pol- 293  MAINTENANCE AND CARE lutants. It is driven in coastal areas. The underbody must be thoroughly pressure washed after every

It is driven in coastal areas. The underbody must be thoroughly pressure washed after every three months. In addition to regularly washing your car, the following precautions need to be taken. Periodic Inspection Regularly inspect your vehicle for any damage in the paint film such as deep scratches and immediately get them repaired from an authorized service outlet, as these defects tend to accel- erate corrosion. Inspect mud liners for damages Keep all drain holes clear from clog- ging. 294 Proper Parking Always park your vehicle in shade to protect it from harsh sunlight or in a well-ventilated garage so that there is no dampness on any part of the vehi- cle.  MAINTENANCE AND CARE VALUE ADDED SERVICES Why are Corrosion Protection Waxes necessary? Corrosion Is Caused By: == = ew WURTH Water / salt water acid rain & atmospheric fallouts. Critical Areas Are: —= Car Care Cavities: joints, crevices, spot welds, underbody * Corrosion is the most important factor when we talk about ro the

crevices, spot welds, underbody * Corrosion is the most important factor when we talk about ro the vehicle life. If you treat your car you can prolong the life. * It is very dangerous to drive around in a corroded vehicle. * The corrosion creeps onto the vehicle from the inside and from the outside. The most dangerous kind of corrosion is often not dis- covered until it is too late. Benefits of Anti - Rust Treatment: « Aprofessionally applied range of world class products offering real value to the new and used vehicle customer. * The treatment has been developed to withstand the harshest environmental and climatic conditions (rust. Pollutants, stone and gravel impact, etc.) * Insulate cabin space from external noises. * Expensive tin work and Denting / Painting avoided. * Higher resale value for the vehicle. * Higher safety — uncorroded vehicle * 10 free checkups available 295  MAINTENANCE AND CARE TATA MOTORS has tied up with M/s Wurth, M/s Autokrom, M/s 3M India Lt d & M/s Bardahl

AND CARE TATA MOTORS has tied up with M/s Wurth, M/s Autokrom, M/s 3M India Lt d & M/s Bardahl for these world class treatment at af- fordable prices. These treatments are available in all authorized workshops. The Dealer Service Marketing Executive will explain to you the benefits and terms and conditions of this treatment. | / We have been explained the Benefits, Terms and conditions and the prices of these treatments by the Dealer Service Marketing Executive. | | wish to avail / | Do not wish to avail extended warrant policy. Customer’s Signature Dealer’s Signature 296  MAINTENANCE AND CARE VEHICLE INTERIOR ENRICHMENT Why To Protect Your New Car’s Fabric Interior? * Someone will spoil your vehicle’s fabric carpet or seats. « Asignificant detractor from your vehicle’s resale value. « Apermanent stain on your vehicle’s interior fabric. Vehicle Interior Gets Affected From: Drink Spills - Food Stains - Mud - Ultraviolet Rays Pets - Traffic Benefits: Vehicle Interior Enrichment *

- Food Stains - Mud - Ultraviolet Rays Pets - Traffic Benefits: Vehicle Interior Enrichment * Removal of medium stains and dirt from all interior parts of the car i.e., carpet, upholstery and roof lining. * Cleaning of windshield and all windows (inside and outside). * Dressing of all internal plastics (e.g.: door pad trims) and rubber parts. * The treatment involves cleaning and dressing of all parts of the exposed interiors. * Specialised protection for seat fabric from liquid spills. TATA MOTORS has tied up with M/s Wurth and M/s Autokrom for this world class treatment at affordable prices. This treatment is available in all authorized workshops. The Dealer Service Marketing Executive will explain to you the benefits and terms and conditions of this treatment. | / We have been explained the Terms and conditions, Coverage and Owner’s responsibility by the Dealer Service Marketing Execu- tive. | | wish to avail 1 Do not wish to avail extended warrant policy. Customer’s Signature

Execu- tive. | | wish to avail 1 Do not wish to avail extended warrant policy. Customer’s Signature Dealer’s Signature 297  298  VEHICLE WARRANTY - TERMS AND CONDITIONS We WARRANT each TATA PUNCH EV vehicle and parts thereof manufactured by us to be free from defect in material and work- man ship subject to the following terms and conditions: 1. This warranty shall be for a period of 36 months from the date of sale of the car or a mileage of 1,25,000 km whichever occurs earlier. The warranty on the battery and motor shall be for a period of 96 months from the date of sale of car or a mileage of 1,60,000 KMs which-ever occur earlier. Our obligation under this warranty shall be limited to repairing or replacing, free of charge, such parts of the car which, in our opinion, are defective, on the car being brought to us or to our dealers within the period. The parts so repaired or replaced shall also be warranted for quality and workmanship but such warranty shall be co-terminus with this

also be warranted for quality and workmanship but such warranty shall be co-terminus with this original warranty. Any part which is found to be defective and is replaced by us under the warranty shall be our property. As for such parts as Tyres, Batteries, Audio and / or Video equipment (if any), etc. not manufactured by us but supplied by other parties, this warranty shall not apply, but buyers of the car shall be entitled to, so far as permissible by law, all such rights as we may have against such parties under their warranties in respect of such parts. This warranty shall not apply if the car or any part thereof is 8. WARRANTY repaired or altered otherwise than in accordance with our standard repair procedure or by any person other than from our sales or service establishments, our authorized dealers, service centres or service points in any way so as, in our judg- ment which shall be final and binding, to affect its reliability, nor shall it apply if, in our opinion which shall

be final and binding, to affect its reliability, nor shall it apply if, in our opinion which shall be final and bind- ing, the car is subjected to misuse, negligence, improper or inadequate maintenance or accident or loading in excess of such carrying capacity as certified by us, or such services as prescribed in our Owner’s Manual are not carried out by the buyer through our sales or service establishments, our author- ized dealers, service centres or service points. This warranty shall not apply to the replacement of nor- mal wear parts, including without limitation, drive belts, hoses, wiper blades, fuses, clutch disc, brake shoes, brake pads, cables and all rubber parts (except oil sea land glass run). This warranty shall not cover any inherent normal deteriora- tion of the car or any of its parts arising from the actual use of the car or any damage due to negligent or improper operation or storage of the car. This warranty shall not apply to normal maintenance services like oils

or storage of the car. This warranty shall not apply to normal maintenance services like oils & fluid changes, head lamps focusing, fastener retight- ening, center hub cap/wheel cover. wheel balancing and align- ment, tyre rotation, adjustment of valve clearance, ignition timing and consumables like bulbs, air and gas leaks in case 299  WARRANTY 10. 11. 12. 13. of air conditioned cars. This warranty shall not apply to any damage or deterioration caused by environmental pollution or bird droppings. Slight ir- regularities not recognized as affecting the function or quality of the vehicle or parts, such as slight noise or vibration, de- fects appearing only under particular or irregular operations are items considered characteristics of the vehicle. This warranty shall be null and void if the car is subjected to abnormal use such as rallying, racing or participation in any other competitive sport. This warranty shall not apply to any repair or replacements as a result of accident or

sport. This warranty shall not apply to any repair or replacements as a result of accident or collision. This warranty is expressly in lieu of all warranties, whether bylaw or otherwise, expressed or implied, and all other obli- gations or liabilities on our part and we neither assume, nor authorize any person to assume on our behalf, any other lia- bility arising from the sale of the car or any agreement in re- lation thereto. The buyer shall have no other rights except those set out above and have, in particular, no right to repudiate the sale, or any agreement or to claim any reduction in the purchase price of the car, or to demand any damages or compensation for losses, incidental or indirect, or inconvenience or conse- quential damages, loss of car, or loss of time, or otherwise, incurred or accrued. Any claim arising from this warranty shall be recognized only if it is notified in writing to us or to our authorized dealer with- 300 out any delay soon after such defects as

in writing to us or to our authorized dealer with- 300 out any delay soon after such defects as covered & ascer- tained under this warranty. 14. This warranty is fully transferable to subsequent vehicle owner. Only unexpired remaining period of warranty ap- plies. 15. We reserve our rights to make any change or modification in design of the car or its parts or to introduce any improvement therein or to incorporate in the car any additional part or ac- cessory at any time without incurring any obligation to incor- porate the same in the cars previously sold.  EXTENDED WARRANTY - TERMS AND CONDITIONS TATA MOTORS recommends the purchase of its extended warranty program. Coverage - Mechanical + Electrical Benefits * Insures you against unforeseen break down repair bills. + Documentation is simple and hassle free. + Near cashless & speedy claim Term 36 + 12 months or 1,25,000 kms whichever occurs first OR 36 + 24 months or 1,25,000 kms whichever occurs first Note * The extended warranty

occurs first OR 36 + 24 months or 1,25,000 kms whichever occurs first Note * The extended warranty comes into force once the manufacturer’s warranty expires. * It is more restrictive as by the time it comes into force the vehicle is already 36 months old. What Is Covered? EXTENDED WARRANTY EXTENDED WARRANTY UP TO 5 YEARS | Extended Warranty is available in the dealership from where you have purchased your vehicle. We strongly recommend purchase of Extended Warranty at time of purchase of your vehicle. Extended Warranty can be availed until warranty period from date of purchase of vehicle. The Dealer Service Marketing Executive shall explain to you the Terms and conditions, Coverage and Owner's responsi- bility. * Mechanical / Electrical break down as defined in this warranty and confirmed by the dealer within the stipulated terms and condi- tions. *« TATA MOTORS dealer shall either repair or replace any part found to be defective with a new part or an equivalent at no cost to 301

or replace any part found to be defective with a new part or an equivalent at no cost to 301  EXTENDED WARRANTY the owner for p arts or labour. * Such defective parts which have been replaced will become property of TATA PASSENGER ELECTRIC MOBILITY LTD. What is not covered? Please refer the Extended Warranty Booklet for details of the exclusion list. Soft copy can be available with the dealer. What Is Not Covered? Please refer the Extended Warranty Booklet for details of the exclusion list. Soft copy can be available with the dealer. Owner’s Responsibility * Proper use, maintenance and care of the vehicle in accordance with the instructions contained in the Owner’s Manual and Service Booklet. The records of the same to be ensured in Owner’s Manual. + Retention of maintenance service bills. | / We have been explained the Terms and conditions, Coverage and Owner’s responsibility by the Dealer Service Marketing Execu- tive LJ | wish to avail / LJ Do not wish to avail extended warrant

Dealer Service Marketing Execu- tive LJ | wish to avail / LJ Do not wish to avail extended warrant policy. Customer’s Signature Dealer’s Signature 302

