id TATA SRARFARI OWNER’S MANUAL TATA MOTORS Revision: Rev 01/AUG 2021  CUSTOMER ASSISTANCE In our constant endeavour to provide assistance and complete service backup, TATA MOTORS has established an all India cus- tomer assistance centre. In case you have a query regarding any aspect of your vehicle, our Customer Assistance Centre will be glad to assist you on our Toll Free no. 1800 209 8282 @ You can also approach nearest TATA MOTORS dealer. A separate Dealer network address booklet is provided with the Owner’s manual. TATA MOTORS 24X7 Roadside Assistance Program offers tech- nical help in the event of a breakdown. Call the toll-free Road- side Assistance. For additional information, refer to "24X7 Roadside Assis- tance" section in the Owner's manual. REFINISHING SOLUTIONS BODY & PAINT VALUE CARE WAIVTENANCE PLANS, EXT! D WARRANTY UPTO YEARS RAPID REPAIR non BODY REPAIRS  FOREWORD Dear Customer, Welcome to the TATA MOTORS family. We congratulate you on the purchase of your new vehicle

Welcome to the TATA MOTORS family. We congratulate you on the purchase of your new vehicle and are privileged to have you as our valued customer. We urge you to read this Owner's Manual carefully and familiarize yourself with the equipment descriptions and operating instructions before driving. Always carry out prescribed service / maintenance work as well as any required repairs at an authorized TATA MOTORS Dealers or Authorized Service Centre’s (TASCs). Use only genuine parts for continued reliability, safety and performance of your vehicle. You are welcome to contact our dealer or Customer Assistance toll free no. (1800 209 8282) in case of any query or support required. We wish you a safe and pleasant driving experience. TATA MOTORS Bombay House, 24, Homi Modi Street, Hutatma Chowk, Fort, Mumbai ~ 400001  IMPORTANT INFORMATION Before driving, read this Owner's manual carefully and familiarize yourself with your vehicle. For your own safety and a longer ve-hicle life, follow the

familiarize yourself with your vehicle. For your own safety and a longer ve-hicle life, follow the instructions, ‘Warnings’ and ‘Notes’ in this manual. Ignoring them could result in damage to the or personal injury to you or others. The Owner's manual and other booklets are important documents and should always be kept in the vehicle. If you sell the vehicle, always pass on the documents to the new owner. This Owner's Manual describes all variants of the model and all standard/optional equipment of your vehicle available at the time of printing. Please note that your vehicle may not be equipped with all features described. TATA MOTORS PASSENGER VEHICLE LIMITED reserves the right to introduce changes in the design, equipment and technical features without any obligation to install them on the vehicles previously sold. The equipment in your vehicle may therefore differ from that shown in the descriptions and illustrations. Do not carry out any modification including fitment of

shown in the descriptions and illustrations. Do not carry out any modification including fitment of non-genuine accessories on your vehicle. Safety, handling, performance and durability, may otherwise be adversely affected and may violate government regulations. TATA MOTORS PASSENGER VEHICLE LIMITED no liability for damage resulting from the modifications or use of non-genuine accessories. All rights reserved. The information in this manual shall not be copied, translated or otherwise reproduced, in whole or inpart without written permission from TATA MOTORS. © Copyright 2021 TATA MOTORS  01. SAFETY Important Information 1 Seat Belts 4 Child Restraint System (CRS) Supplementary Restraint System (SRS - 12 Airbags) (if equipped) Child Lock (if equipped) 18 Anti-theft Device Immobilizer / PEPS 20 Anti-lock Braking System (ABS) (if equipped) 21 Electronic Brake Force Distribution (EBD) 22 Additional Safety Features (as available) 22 02. OPENING AND CLOSING Keys (as available) 25 Smart Key

Safety Features (as available) 22 02. OPENING AND CLOSING Keys (as available) 25 Smart Key (PEPS) 27 Smart Key Features 29 Flip Key 30 Flip Key Features 31 Door 32 Windows 33 CONTENTS Bonnet 35 Tailgate Opening (as available) 37 Fuel Lid 39 Power Sunroof (if available) 40 Cockpit 47 Instrument Cluster (TFT Screen) 48 Instrument Cluster (LCD Screen) 70 Tell Tales 83 Audio Reminders (if available) 92 Combi-switch (RH Stalk) 93 Combi-switch (LH Stalk) 95 Fascia Switches 96 Steering Wheel Switches (LHS) (if available) 97 Steering Wheel Switches (RHS) (if available) 98 Mic (if available) 99 Infotainment System Display (if available) 99 Speakers & Tweeter (if available) 101 USB Charger (if available) 101  CONTENTS Power Socket 102 05. CLIMATE CONTROL Antenna (if available) 103 Air Distribution 125 Shark Fin Antenna (if available) 103 Air Vents 126 Roof Grab Handle (if available) 104 HVAC Controls (if available) 127 Front Fog Lamps (if available) 104 Fully Automatic Temperature Control

Controls (if available) 127 Front Fog Lamps (if available) 104 Fully Automatic Temperature Control (FATC) (if 432 Rear Fog Lamps (if available) 105 available) Puddle / Ajar Lamp 105 Cabin Air Purification 139 Roof Lamp 105 Side Indicator Lamp On Orvm 107 Pre Driving Checks 141 Front Lamp 108 Driving Tips 142 Tail Lamp 108 Seat Adjustments 145 Ambient Lights (if available) 109 Rear View Mirrors 157 iRA (iNtelligent Real-time Assist) Connected 109 Sun Visors 159 Car Service Steering Wheel Adjustment (if available) 159 Wireless Power Charging 110 Steering Lock And Ignition Switch (if available) 160 Starting And Stopping (without PEPS) 161 Starting And Stopping (PEPS) (if available) 171 Storage Compartment 119 Engine Passive Start - Conditions 172 Engine Passive Stop - Conditions 173 vi  CONTENTS Manual Transmission (MT) 173 24 X 7 Road Assistance 231 Driving 176 Braking 177 Maintenance And Service 235 Parking Brake 178 Engine Compartment 236 Automatic Vehicle Hold (if equipped) 184 Tyres

Service 235 Parking Brake 178 Engine Compartment 236 Automatic Vehicle Hold (if equipped) 184 Tyres 242 Reverse Park Assist (if available) 186 Remote Key Battery Replacement (for Flip key) 245 Rear Park Assist With Camera (if available) 191 Smart Key Battery Replacement (for PEPS vari- 246 Drive Mode (if available) 197 ant) Terrain Response Mode (if available) 198 On Board Diagnostic (OBD Il) System 247 Diesel Particulate Filter (DPF) 248 Exhaust After Treatment System 249 Emergency Equipment 201 Regeneration Process 250 Spare Wheel Removal Process 203 Diesel Exhaust Fluid (DEF) 251 In Case Of Flat Tyre 205 Service Instructions 256 Puncture Repair Kit (if available) 208 Service Schedule 257 Jump Lead Starting 215 Vehicle Parking For Long Duration 264 Towing 216 Fuses 219 Bulb Specification 229 Fuel Specification 265 vii  CONTENTS Lubricant Specification 266 Technical Specifications 267 Vehicle Dimensions 271 Aggregate Identification Numbers 272 Car Care 273 Fast Tag 275 Value Care -

Vehicle Dimensions 271 Aggregate Identification Numbers 272 Car Care 273 Fast Tag 275 Value Care - AMC 276 Extended Warranty 280 Value Added Services 282 Vehicle Exterior Enrichment 284 Vehicle Interior Enrichment 285 Vehicle Warranty: Terms And Conditions 287 Environmental Safety 289 viii  IMPORTANT INFORMATION In this Owner’s Manual, you will find the text under the heading “WARNING” and “NOTE” which highlights important infor- mation. Pay particular attention to these highlighted messages. @ NOTE Indicates additional information that will assist you in gaining the optimum ben- efit and care for your vehicle. A\ WARNING Indicates procedures or information that must be followed precisely in order to avoid the possibility of severe personal injury and serious damage to the vehi- cle. Safe Driving Safety consciousness not only ensures your safety and the safety of other road users, but it also helps to reduce the wear and tear on your vehicle. Safe driving depends on: * How quickly you

also helps to reduce the wear and tear on your vehicle. Safe driving depends on: * How quickly you make decisions to avoid an accident. + Your ability to concentrate. + How well you can see and judge ob- jects. + How well familiar you are with your ve- hicle controls and its capabilities. Fatigue is a result of physical or mental exertion that impairs judgment. Driver fatigue may be due to inadequate sleep, extended work hours, strenuous work or non-work activities or combina- tion of other factors. Take rest at regular intervals. SAFETY Safety Tips + Always take into account the road con- ditions, weather conditions, vehicle speed in order to prevent accidents. + Turn ‘ON’ the side indicators at least 30 meters before taking a turn or changing the lane. + Decelerate to a safe speed before tak- ing turn. Do not apply brakes during cornering. + When overtaking other vehicles, watch out for the oncoming vehicle. + Never drive under the influence of al- cohol or drugs. + If your vehicle

the oncoming vehicle. + Never drive under the influence of al- cohol or drugs. + If your vehicle is equipped with info- tainment/navigation system, set and make changes to your travel route only when the vehicle is parked. + Program radio presets with the vehicle parked, and use your programmed presets to make radio use quicker and simpler.  SAFETY Driving Through Water Do not drive through flooded areas. Judge the depth of water before driving through it. Otherwise, water may enter the vehicle interior or the engine compartment. If at all the situation demands that you have to drive through water then; + Keep engine in higher RPM and crawl the vehicle in low gear. + Flowing or rushing water creates strong forces. Driving through flowing water could cause the vehicle to about trying to drive through flowing water. + Lightly apply the brake pedal to dry the liners until the brakes work normally once you are out of water. A\ WARNING Do not attempt to start the engine if ve- hicle gets

normally once you are out of water. A\ WARNING Do not attempt to start the engine if ve- hicle gets flooded due to water. Tow the vehicle to a safe place. Contact a near- est TATA MOTORS Authorised Service Centre Driving on a Rainy Day + Check wiper blades, lights and brakes for proper functioning and condition. + Check the tyre treads depth, the con- dition of the tread and tyre. + Avoid harsh braking and sharp turns. It may cause loss of control and lead to a skid. + For slowing down, shift to lower gears and brake gently. + Keep lights ‘ON’ if visibility is poor. Driving on Wet Roads On wet road or during light showers, “Aquaplaning’” can occur. “Aquaplaning” is the loss of direct contact between the road surface and the vehicle’s tires due to a water film forming between them. Steering or braking the vehicle can be very difficult, and loss of control can occur. There is no hard and fast rule about aqua- planing. The best advice is to slow down when the road is wet. @ NOTE If you

fast rule about aqua- planing. The best advice is to slow down when the road is wet. @ NOTE If you have driven for a long time in heavy rain without braking, there may be a delayed reaction from the brakes when braking for the first time. You have to press the brake pedal more firmly. Maintain a greater distance from the ve- hicle in front. Driving on Snowy Roads While driving in snow, it is advisable to use the snow chain on roads. Follow assembly and safety instruction provided by the snow chain manufacturers.  Night Driving Ensure that all lights are working and windshield, window glasses are clean. Drive more slowly at night than in the daytime, as the visual range is re- stricted at night. Maintain a speed such that you can stop within illuminated distance of head lamps. Do not use the high beam unless in- evitable. It may dazzle the driver of the oncoming vehicle, thus causing an ac- cident. Use head lamp main/dip beam to alert other road users on turns/ cross roads etc. Use

an ac- cident. Use head lamp main/dip beam to alert other road users on turns/ cross roads etc. Use side indicators for lane change or turning. Driving on Gradients When climbing gradient, the vehicle may begin to slow down and show a lack of power. If this happens, shift to a lower gear and apply power smoothly so that there is no loss of traction. When driving down a hill, the engine brak- ing should be used by shifting into a lower gear. Do not drive in neutral gear or switch off the engine. A\ WARNING On long and steep gradients you must reduce the load on the brakes by shift- ing early to a lower gear. This allows you to take advantage of the engine braking effect and helps avoid over- heating of service brakes resulting in re- duced braking efficiency. SAFETY Driving on Highway Stopping distance progressively, in- creases with vehicle speed. Maintain a sufficient distance between your vehicle and the vehicle ahead. For long distance driving, perform safety checks before starting

vehicle and the vehicle ahead. For long distance driving, perform safety checks before starting a trip and take rest at certain intervals to prevent fatigue.  SAFETY SEAT BELTS This section of user manual describes your vehicle seat belt, airbag and Child re- straints system. Please read and follow all these instructions carefully to minimize risk of severe injury or death. + Seat belts are the primary restraints system in the vehicle. All occupants, including the driver, should always wear their seat belts to minimize the risk of injury. + Sit back and adjust (if equipped), the seat. Make sure that your seat is ad- justed to a good driving position and the back of the seat is upright. Buckling the Shoulder Seat Belt + Grasp the tongue then slowly pull ou the seat belt over the shoulder and across the chest. When the seat belt is long enough to fit, insert the tongue into the lock buckle until you hear a “CLICK” which indicates that the seat belt is securely locked. + Position the lap

until you hear a “CLICK” which indicates that the seat belt is securely locked. + Position the lap portion of seat bel across your thighs, below your ab- domen. To remove slack, pull up a bi on the shoulder seat belt. To loosen the lap portion seat belt if it is too tight, tilt the tongue and pull on the lap sea belt. A snug seat belt reduces the risk of sliding under the seat belt in a colli- sion. Ensure that the seat belt running over the body (shoulder segment and lap segment) does not have any twist. Twisted seat belt may not offer effec- tive protection when required. Releasing the Seat Belt To release the seat belt, push the red but- on on the lock buckle. The seat belt wil automatically retract to its stowed position. f necessary, slide the tongue down the webbing to allow the seat belt to retrac ully. @ NOTE The above image is for reference pur- pose only.  Fixed Rear Centre Lap Seat Belt When buckling, make sure you hear a click confirming that the tab is latched into the

Lap Seat Belt When buckling, make sure you hear a click confirming that the tab is latched into the seat belt lock. To tighten it, pull the loose end through the buckle until the seat belt is comfortably adjusted around the pelvic bone (hips). AX WARNING + Each seating position and seat belt assembly must be used by one oc- cupant. It is not recommended to put a seat belt around a child, being carried on an occupant's lap. + Be careful not to damage or tamper the seat belt webbing or hardware. Inspect the seat belt system period- ically, checking for cuts, frays, or loose parts. A frayed or torn seat belt could rip apart in a collision and leave you with no protection. + Ifthe seat belt webbing or hardware is damaged, get it replaced immedi- ately at TATA Motors Authorized service centre. Do not insert any items such as coins, clips, etc. into the seat belt buckles, and be careful not to spill liquids into these parts. If foreign materials get into a seat belt buckle, the seat belt

to spill liquids into these parts. If foreign materials get into a seat belt buckle, the seat belt will not work properly. Do not wear seat belts over hard, sharp or fragile items in clothing, such as pens, keys, spectacles etc. Do not use any accessories on seat belts or modify in any way the seat belt system. Devices claiming to im- prove occupant comfort or reposi- tioning the seat belt, can reduce the protection provided by the seat belt and increase the chance of serious injury in a collision. SAFETY Seat Belts with Pre - Tensioner (if equipped) You can use pre-tensioner seat belts in the same manner as ordinary seat belts. The seat belt pre-tensioner system works in conjunction with the SUPPLEMENTARY RESTRAINTS SYSTEM (SRS-Airbags). In the event of a collision, as may be nec- essary, pre-tensioner tightens the seat belt so that it fits the occupant’s body more snugly. When pre-tensioner activates, there could be some noise and release of smoke. This is normal and there are no

activates, there could be some noise and release of smoke. This is normal and there are no health hazards or fire risk. A\ WARNING In a collision, the pre-tensioner seat belt assembly mechanisms become hot dur- ing activation. Do not touch the pre-ten- sioner seat belt assemblies for several minutes after they have been activated. If the vehicle has been involved in a colli- sion, get it inspected immediately at au- thorized TATA MOTORS SERVICE Center.  SAFETY Seat Belt with Load Limiter (if equipped) You can use the load limiter seat belts in the same manner as ordinary seat belts. The seat belt load limiter system works in conjunction with the SUPPLEMEN-TARY RESTRAINTS SYSTEM (SRS-Airbags). In the event of a collision, as may be nec- essary, load limiter reduces the load on the rib cage region of the occupant. If the vehicle has been involved in a colli- sion, get it inspected immediately at Au- thorized TATA MOTORS SERVICE Center. Use of Seat Belts for Pregnant Woman A\ WARNING +

at Au- thorized TATA MOTORS SERVICE Center. Use of Seat Belts for Pregnant Woman A\ WARNING + Pregnant woman must wear a cor- rectly positioned seat belt. It is safer for mother as well as unborn child. + Pregnant woman should wear the lap part of the seat belt across the pelvic bone (hips) and as snug across the hips as possible. Keep the seat belt low so that it does not come across the abdomen. That way the strong bones of the hips will take the force if there is a collision.  Seat Belt Warning Lamp aE For Driver For Front Passenger The seat belt warning lamp reminds you to fasten the seat belt. ¢ If the driver does not fasten seat belt, seat belt reminder lamp will blink and a buzzer will sound for pre-defined du- ration until the driver's seat belt is buckled. + If front passenger seat is occupied by adult and does not fasten seat belt, seat belt reminder lamp will blink and a buzzer will sound for pre-defined du- ration until the front passenger seat belt is buckled. + If this

will sound for pre-defined du- ration until the front passenger seat belt is buckled. + If this system is also provided for other than Front row seats, applicable above warnings will appear until seat belts are buckled. + If front passenger seat is occupied by child, system may detect occupancy and warn with front passenger seat belt warning. It is not taken to mean child can occupy front passenger seat and use seat belt. Please refer CRS section for recommended seating po- sition. NOTE Using unauthorized after-market seat cover may affect function of occupant sensor. TATA motors does not recom- mend any non-validated seat covers on Seats. SAFETY  SAFETY CHILD RESTRAINT SYSTEM (CRS) TATA MOTORS strongly recommends the use of Child Restraint Systems (CRS) for all children up to age of 12 years and to be placed at recom-mended positions only. Children travel-ling without recommended CRS and seated at other positions may face serious injuries in case of a collision. CRS can be installed

seated at other positions may face serious injuries in case of a collision. CRS can be installed in the vehicle using seat belts and/or ISOFIX only (if equipped) or ISOFIX with Top Tether (if equipped). The harness system of CRS holds the child in place, and in a collision, acts to keep the child positioned in the seat and reduce the risk of injuries. All children below age of one year must al- ways ride in a rear-facing infant CRS. Keep children above age of one year, ina forward-facing CRS with a harness until they reach the size or weight limit allowed by your CRS manufacturer. Once your child outgrows the forward-fac- ing CRS, your child is ready for a booster seat. Selection and Installation of CRS Always select the CRS that complies with latest safety standards (AISO72 / ECE R44). The CRS are classified according to he child’s size, height and weight. Select he appropriate CRS for your child. Ensure hat the child fits properly in the CRS and it is securely installed in the

for your child. Ensure hat the child fits properly in the CRS and it is securely installed in the vehicle. For installation, please refer CRS manufac- urer’s instruction manual. The above images are for reference purpose only.  SAFETY Recommended CRS Position as Per . . Interme- the Vehicle Matrix Front Rear p. diate Out- Inter- The suitability of seat position for carriage Age Grou Pas- Out- Cen: board medi- of children and recommended category of g p sen- board ter Second ate CRS is shown in the table below as per the ger = (rh/Ih) Row Centre child group. Lhirh X - Seat Position not suitable for children U Avs p to 10 Up to 9 in this age group. 0 kg months x x x u NA U - Suitable for “universal” category re- Up to 13 Up to 24 straints approved for use in this age group. O+ kg months x x x U NA Universal is a category in the AlS072 / 9 months to ECE R44 norm 9 tp 18 kg 48 months x x x U NA AX WARNING I |15t0. 25 kg osama x x x U NA If a child is seated in the front seat it may cause

U NA AX WARNING I |15t0. 25 kg osama x x x U NA If a child is seated in the front seat it may cause serious injury or even death Ill | 22 to 36 kg during any collision. Approx. 6 to 12 years  SAFETY A\ WARNING If your vehicle is equipped with a front passenger airbag (PAB) and does not have PAB deactivation switch, do not in- stall a rear-facing CRS in the front pas- senger seat. If the PAB inflates, a child in a rear facing CRS could be seriously injured or killed. If you install a CRS in the rear seat, slide the front seat far enough forward so that the child’s feet do not touch the front seat- back. This will help avoid injury to the child in the event of a collision. @ NOTE Children could be endangered in a col- lision if their CRS is not properly se- cured in the vehicle. Be sure to secure the child in the restraint system accord- ing to the manufacturer’s instructions. A\ WARNING Do not use an infant carrier or a child safety seat that “hooks” over a seat 10 back, it will not

Do not use an infant carrier or a child safety seat that “hooks” over a seat 10 back, it will not provide adequate pro- tection in a collision. After a collision, we recommend to get seat belts, seats, ISOFIX and top-tether anchorages (as may be applicable) inves- tigated at TATA MOTORS Authorized serv- ice center. @NOTE A CRS in a closed vehicle can become very hot. To prevent burns, check the seating surface and buckles before placing your child in CRS. A\ WARNING + Do not leave unattended children in your vehicle. + Do not modify CRS in any way. @NOTE + Do not install a booster seat or a booster cushion with only the lap strap of the seat belt. Do not install a booster seat or a booster cushion with a seat belt that is slack or twisted. Do not put the safety seat belt under your child’s arm or behind its back. Do not use pillows, books or towels to boost your child’s height. Make sure that your children sit in an upright position. Do not allow children to stand up or kneel on

sure that your children sit in an upright position. Do not allow children to stand up or kneel on either the rear or the front seats. An unrestrained child could suffer serious or fatal injuries during a collision. Do not leave any toys or other ob- jects loose in the CRS or on the seat while the vehicle is in motion.  Each CRS should be used for one child only. When PAB deactivation switch (if pro- vided) is turned ‘OFF’, make sure ‘PAB’ operational status lamp illuminates with ig- nition ‘ON’, indicating that the passenger airbag is NOT operational. If the airbag SRS warning indicator in the instrument cluster illuminates continuously, it means that there is malfunction in the system. Re- move the CRS from front passenger seat and contact your TATA MOTORS author- ized service center. SAFETY The above images are for reference purpose only. 11  SAFETY SUPPLEMENTARY RESTRAINT SYSTEM (SRS - Airbags) (if equipped) The airbag ‘SRS’ system comprises of the following components depending

- Airbags) (if equipped) The airbag ‘SRS’ system comprises of the following components depending upon the provided safety features in vehicle. + Seat belt Pre-tensioners + Seat belt with load limiters + Driver Airbag + Front Passenger Airbag + Side Airbags (if equipped) * Curtain Airbag (if equipped) + Airbag ‘SRS’ ECU (Electronic Control Unit) * Collision Sensors + SRS wiring harness * SRS Warning lamp The System is active when ignition switch is in the “ON” position or the ignition mode is “ON”. Airbags are designed to inflate in severe collisions. In the event of a colli- sion, the collision sensors will detect sig- nals, and if the Airbag ECU judges that the signals represent a severe collision, will 12 trigger the airbags. The inflated Airbags provide a cushion to the occupants. The Airbag inflates and deflates so quickly that you may not even realize that it has acti- vated. The Airbag will neither hinder your view nor make it hurdle to exit the vehicle. Airbag inflation is

Airbag will neither hinder your view nor make it hurdle to exit the vehicle. Airbag inflation is virtually instantaneous and occurs with considerable force, ac- companied by loud noise and smoke, which is normal. The inflated airbag, to- gether with seat belts, limit the movement of an occupant, thereby reducing the risk of injury. When an airbag inflates, you may see some smoke-like particles. The particles are a normal by-product of the process that generates the non-toxic gas used for airbag inflation. These airborne particles may irritate the skin, eyes, nose, or throat. If you have skin or eye irritation, rinse the area with water. For nose or throat irrita- tion, move to fresh air. Also sometimes the smoke can cause breathing problems, in such cases get fresh air promptly. After inflation, airbag provides a gradual cushioning effect for the occupant there- after deflates. It is not advisable to drive your vehicle after the airbags have been deployed. If you are involved in

is not advisable to drive your vehicle after the airbags have been deployed. If you are involved in another collision, the airbags will not be in place to protect you. The above images are for reference purpose only.  SAFETY @ NOTE Side airbags (if equipped), are mountedin Curtain airbags (if equipped), are mounted a front row seats for outboard occupants above the doors along the roof on both * Open your windows and doors as only. sides. soon as possible after collision to re- duce prolonged exposure to the smoke and powder released by the inflating airbag. + Do not touch the airbag container’s internal components immediately after an Airbag has inflated. The parts that come into contact with an inflating Airbag may be very hot. + Always wash exposed skin areas thoroughly with lukewarm water and mild soap. The driver airbag is mounted in the center of the steering wheel. The front passenger airbag is located inside the dashboard in front of the passenger seat. The vehicle fit- ted

airbag is located inside the dashboard in front of the passenger seat. The vehicle fit- ted with the airbags have suitable indica- tions on steering wheel and on dash board. The word ‘AIRBAG’ is embossed on the airbag covers. @NOTE The above image is for reference pur- The above image is for reference pur- pose only. pose only. 13  SAFETY A\ WARNING 14 Even in vehicles with Airbags, you and your passengers must always wear the seat belts provided. In order to minimize the risk and sever- ity of injury in the event of a collision. ALWAYS use seat belts and CRS — during every trip and at all times. Even with airbags, you can be seri- ously injured or killed in a collision if you are not wearing seat belt prop- erly or not wearing seat belt when airbag inflates. You and your passengers should never sit or lean unnecessarily close to the Airbags. Move your seat as far back as pos- sible from front Airbags, while still maintaining control of the vehicle. All occupants should sit upright

front Airbags, while still maintaining control of the vehicle. All occupants should sit upright with the seatback in an upright position, centred on the seat cushion with their seat belt on, legs comfortably extended and their feet on the floor until the vehicle is parked and the engine is turned off. + If an occupant is out of position dur- ing collision, the rapidly deploying Airbag may forcefully contact the occupant causing serious or fatal in- juries. + Do not allow the front passenger to place their feet or legs on the dash- board. Not Recommended Seating Position  SAFETY @ NOTE The above images are for reference purpose only.  SAFETY A\ WARNING 16 Never place your arm over the airbag as a deploying airbag can re- sult in serious arm fractures or other injuries. Do not allow the passengers to lean their heads or bodies onto doors or place objects between the doors and passengers when they are seated on seats equipped with side and/or curtain Airbags. Do not place or stick any

when they are seated on seats equipped with side and/or curtain Airbags. Do not place or stick any item/s in the vehicle, except at designated lo- cations (such as utility bins, cup/bot- tle holders, boot space etc). Loose items may act as a projectile during a collision and cause severe to fatal injuries. Please be aware that any unse- cured item in your vehicle, such as your pet, unsecured CRS or a lap- top, can become a potential hazard in the event of a collision or sudden stop, causing injuries to occupants in the vehicle. Coat hooks (if provided), must be used only for that purpose. Never hang other items on to those hooks. This could affect deployment of the Airbags, and may lead to severe to fatal injuries. ALWAYS contact your TATA MO- TORS authorized service center if the vehicle is damaged, even if airbag has not inflated. ALWAYS contact your TATA MO- TORS authorized service center if any part of an airbag module cover shows sign of cracking or damage. WARNING If your SRS

center if any part of an airbag module cover shows sign of cracking or damage. WARNING If your SRS malfunctions, the Airbag may not inflate properly during a colli- sion thereby increasing risk of serious injury or death. If any of the following conditions occur, your SRS is malfunc- tioning: The SRS warning lamp does not turn ‘ON’ when the ignition switch is placed in the ‘ON’ position for few seconds. The SRS warning lamp stays ‘ON’ after illuminating. The SRS warning lamp comes ‘ON’/stays ‘ON’ while the vehicle is in motion. The SRS warning lamp blinks when the engine is running. We recommend the customer to imme- diately visit TATA MOTORS authorized service center and get the SRS system inspected if any of the above conditions occur.  AX WARNING Never make any modifications to your vehicle. The modifications car- ried out, but not limited to the vehi- cle frame, bumpers, front fenders, ride height, suspension, seat belts, interior trims, steering wheel (espe- cially holders), are

ride height, suspension, seat belts, interior trims, steering wheel (espe- cially holders), are not acceptable. This will affect the intended perform- ance of SRS system. Fitment of bull bars, seat covers on seats with airbags etc, is strictly pro- hibited, unless authorised by TATA MOTORS. This will affect the in- tended performance of SRS sys- tem. If you need to make any modifica- tions to accommodate any disability you may have, please contact your Authorized TATA MOTORS Dealer for necessary guidance. Do not tamper with SRS in any way. This will lead to unexpected per- formance of system and may cause serious injury or death. Airbag Warning Sticker on Front Pas- senger Sun Visor The Airbag Warning Symbol on sun visor reminds extreme hazards associated with the use of rearward-facing child restrain on front passenger seat during airbag de- ployment. It is not taken to mean child can occupy front passenger seat and use seat belt. Please refer CRS section for recom- mended seating

occupy front passenger seat and use seat belt. Please refer CRS section for recom- mended seating position for children. SAFETY A\ WARNING Never use a rearward facing child re- straint on a seat protected by an active Airbag in front of it, Death or serious in- jury to the child can occur. Airbag Deployment Conditions When front airbags should not deploy? Minor frontal collision: Seat belt (if worn) offers adequate occupant protection in low severity collisions. The airbags are trig- gered only when there is a collision severe enough to trigger the airbags. Deployment of frontal airbags is not beneficial in low severity collisions. Side collision: During a side collision, oc- cupants tend to move sideways. There- fore, deploying frontal airbags in such situations will not benefit the occupants. Side airbags and side curtain airbags (if equipped) are specifically designed to re- duce the injuries that can occur in side col- lision. 17  SAFETY Rear collision: During a rear collision,

injuries that can occur in side col- lision. 17  SAFETY Rear collision: During a rear collision, oc- cupants tend to move (rearwards) away from frontal airbags. Therefore, deploying frontal airbags in such situations will not protect the occupant. Head restraints and seat belts provide occupant protection dur- ing a rear collision. Rollovers collision: During a rollover col- lision, unbelted occupants may float inside the passenger compartment. This will in- crease the risk of injuries and may prove to be fatal. Wearing seat belts provide highly effective occupant protection during rollover collision. Front airbags, are not de- signed to deploy in a rollover as frontal airbags cannot offer any protection in rollover collision. When front airbags/side airbags/side curtain airbags (if equipped) deploy with minor or no visible vehicle dam- age? The airbags are triggered only when there is a collision severe enough to trigger the airbags. The extent of vehicle damage is not always the

is a collision severe enough to trigger the airbags. The extent of vehicle damage is not always the correct indicator for airbag deployment. In some extreme/rare condi- 18 tions; of rough road driving, running into a curb or hitting other fixed objects; the airbags may deploy depending upon the severity of collision. In some of these con- ditions, damage to the vehicle may be minor or not be readily visible. When front airbags/side airbags/side curtain airbags (if equipped) may not deploy, even with exterior visible vehi- cle damage? The airbags are triggered only when there is a collision severe enough to trigger the airbags. The amount of visible vehicle damage is not always the correct indicator for airbag deployment. Some collisions can result in visible damage but with no airbag deployment, because the airbags would not have been needed or would not have provided protection even if they had deployed. Seat belts, if worn, offer ade- quate occupant protection in such cases. CHILD

they had deployed. Seat belts, if worn, offer ade- quate occupant protection in such cases. CHILD LOCK (if equipped) Both the rear doors of the vehicle are pro- vided with a child proof lock. Push the lock lever located on vertical face of the door downward before closing the door. The door which has been closed by activating the child lock cannot be opened from in- side, it can be opened only from the out- side.  Lift the lock lever upward to deacti- vate the childproof lock when not re- quired. Child safety lever to be used for safety of child for preventing them to open rear door while seating in pas- senger seat to avoid accident while vehicle is running. SAFETY 19  SAFETY ANTI-THEFT DEVICE IMMOBILIZER | PEPS Immobilizer system is designed to pre-vent vehicle theft by electronically disabling the engine ignition system. The engine can be started only with vehicle’s original Immobi- lizer ignition key which has an electronic identification programmed code. @NOTE Use only Flip key,

lizer ignition key which has an electronic identification programmed code. @NOTE Use only Flip key, the other should be kept in a safe location. Note down “key Tag no.” information (and keep it safe) which is required while getting new/spare keys. Remember that it is not possible to prepare new/spare keys without the “key Tag number.” Take pre- caution about Flip key, as without Flip key vehicle cannot be started. 20 Vehicle Immobilized and awaiting electronic gnition OFF Blinking Locked key gnition ON OFF Unlocked Normal condition and ready to start the vehi- + Problem with key (Wrong key used to start vehicle) gnition ON ON Locked [+ Problem with Immobilizer system. Con- tact a TATA MOTORS Authorized Serv- ice Centre. gnition ON Blinking Unlocked Contact a TATA MOTORS Authorized Serv- ice Centre immediately.  SAFETY ANTI-LOCK BRAKING SYSTEM _ While Braking (ABS) (if equipped) . ABS regulates brake pres- sure in such a way that the ()) wheels do not lock when you brake. This allows

brake pres- sure in such a way that the ()) wheels do not lock when you brake. This allows you to continue steering the vehicle when braking. ing weather and traffic conditions. In an emergency situation take your foot off the accelerator and press the brake pedal fully. This allows the ABS to regulate braking for you and have steering control along with maximum possible braking. + When ABS is active driver will feel brake pedal pulsating and very low motor (ABS) activation noise from en- gine compartment which is nor-mal during ABS braking. AX WARNING * Oncertain surfaces, such as gravel The ABS warning lamp in the instrument cluster lights up when the ignition is switched on. It goes off after 2-3 seconds if system is healthy. AX WARNING + If ABS is faulty, the wheels could lock when braking. The steer ability and braking characteristics may be severely impaired. There is an in- creased danger of skidding and ac- cidents. Drive on carefully. Have ABS checked immediately at the TATA

danger of skidding and ac- cidents. Drive on carefully. Have ABS checked immediately at the TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Cen- tre as soon as possible. or firm ground covered by snow, the standard ABS system may have the effect of increasing the stopping dis- tance, but ABS will still offer the ad- vantage of helping you to maintain directional control of vehicle. However, remember that ABS will not compensate for bad road or weather conditions or poor driver judgment. Drive within safety mar- gin taking into consideration prevail 21  SAFETY ELECTRONIC BRAKE FORCE DIS- TRIBUTION (EBD) EBD monitors and controls the brake pressure on the rear wheels to improve driving sta- bility while braking. EBD provides optimal braking pressure distribution between front and rear wheels to optimize braking distance and to ensure vehicle stability by means of lowering braking pressure increase at rear wheels. A\ WARNING + If EBD is malfunctioning, the rear wheels can lock, e.g. under full braking.

wheels. A\ WARNING + If EBD is malfunctioning, the rear wheels can lock, e.g. under full braking. This increases the risk of skidding and an accident. * You should therefore adapt your driving style to the different handling characteristics. Have the brake sys- tem checked immediately at a TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Cen- tre as soon as possible. 22 ADDITIONAL SAFETY FEATURES (as available) Cornering Stability Control (CSC) Corner stability Control supports / stabi- lizes vehicle during partial braking on curves by reducing pressure at required inner wheel of the vehicle. This helps to reduce probability of vehicle over steering during cornering. OFF Road ABS Based on wheel speed information off road ABS helps to avoid wheel lock on un- even surfaces like loose gravel, pot holes by reducing the stopping distance com- pared to standard ABS. Electronic Traction Control (ETC) The Electronic Traction Control system function (ETC) is designed as a slip control system to prevent the

Traction Control system function (ETC) is designed as a slip control system to prevent the driven wheels of a vehicle from excessive wheel slip. Roll Over Mitigation (ROM) The main feature of the Roll over Mitiga- tion function is the detection of a rollover critical situation and to prevent the vehicle rollover. This is done by active brake inter- ventions on selected wheels, thereby re- ducing the forces that cause a roll-over situation. Brake Disc Wiping (BDW) Water on the brake disc leads to a delay in brake response time. The purpose of the function Brake Disc wiping is to re- move moisture when driving in wet condi- tions automatically. To get quick response form Brake and better deceleration. Electronic Brake Pre-fill (EBP) The Electronic Brake Prefill (EBP) function reduces the air gap of the brake pad and the brake disc. The function is triggered after a sudden release of the accelerator pedal due to an unexpected emergency brake situation. By actively pre-filling the

the accelerator pedal due to an unexpected emergency brake situation. By actively pre-filling the brake-system the brake response time is reduced and results in a shorter stopping distance. Hydraulic Brake Assist (HBA) In a dangerous emergency situation, most drivers don’t use the full available perform- ance of the brake system, because they  brake too soft. The HBA function detects the critical situation and builds up addi- tional brake pressure to reduce the brak- ing distance. Hydraulic Fading Compensation (HFC) In dangerous fading situations most driv- ers operate the brake pedal with a small or regular braking force and they never reach to the maximum possible vehicle de- celeration. The HFC function improve the stopping distance by eliminating required pressure build-up lag by the driver. Dynamic Wheel Torque by Brake (DWT-B) The main goal of the function is to improve the agility of a vehicle and to enable a more direct steering. This is mainly achieved by braking

the agility of a vehicle and to enable a more direct steering. This is mainly achieved by braking interventions at the inner wheels during turning. DWT-B re- duces understeer tendency of the car and a higher curve speed can be achieved. Engine Drag Torque Control (EDTC) On slippery road conditions during in- gear Braking or Shift down of gear or sudden throttle release on a curve road. This causes high Engine drag on the driven wheel resulting into brake slip situ- ations without any brake application. This makes vehicle highly under steerable. EDTC controls such brake slip on the driven wheels by increasing the engine torque to makes the vehicle stable and steerable. Hill Hold Control (HHC) Hill Hold Control is a comfort function. The main intend is to prevent the vehicle from rolling backwards while driving off up-hill on an inclined surface. SAFETY 23  24  KEYS (as available) Sn Name 1 Flip key with remote Remote Key a; So PONS OPENING AND CLOSING Description Unlocking all doors

1 Flip key with remote Remote Key a; So PONS OPENING AND CLOSING Description Unlocking all doors Approach light/Tail gate opening Locking all doors Folding key blade in/out 2 Mechanical key Locking all doors Unlocking all doors 3 Smart key (PEPS) PONS Locking all doors Approach light Tail gate opening Unlocking all doors 25  OPENING AND CLOSING Keys Akey is an electronic access and authori- zation system which is provided as a stan- dard feature on your vehicle. Unlocking Principle The transponder which is built into the ig- nition key carries a unique identification code. The vehicle unlocks when the code on the key matches with the code on the Engine Management System (EMS). In case of PEPS variant, Immobilizer function is provided by PEPS. Engine Starting When the key is inserted and the ignition is switched ‘ON’, all codes are communi- cated within key, Immobilizer and EMS. The engine will start only if all the codes match. Loss of Keys If one of the key is lost, contact your

engine will start only if all the codes match. Loss of Keys If one of the key is lost, contact your near- est TATA MOTORS authorized dealer im- mediately. 26 A\ WARNING + Do not turn ‘ON’ ignition switch by using key with any type of metal wound around its grip or in contact with it. This may be detected as ab- normal condition by immobilizer and prevent en-gine from starting. + Donotleave the key in areas of high temperature. The transponder in it will behave ab-normally when reused. + Do not try to start the vehicle when the Immobilizer indicator lamp | a | on the instrument cluster is glowing. In this condition the vehicle will not start and the vehicle’s battery will also be drained due to frequent cranking.  SMART KEY (PEPS) Keep the smart key with user to perform the passive access. It is used for locking, unlocking and starting the vehicle. 1. Locking all doors 2. Approach Light 3. Tail gate opening 4. Unlocking all doors Locking all Door Pressing the Lock button (1) once,

3. Tail gate opening 4. Unlocking all doors Locking all Door Pressing the Lock button (1) once, remote locks all the doors of the vehicle. Approach Light Press approach light button (2) once, low beam and position lamp will turn ‘ON’. This feature helps to find and reach the parked vehicle or to reach home in dark/ cloudy condition. To switch ‘OFF’ the approach lights, press and release the same button or it automatically turns ‘OFF’ after certain time. Tail Gate Opening To open the Tail gate press the button (3) once on the smart key, Tail gate will un- latch. Please refer section starting and driving for more information. Unlocking all Doors Pressing the unlock button (4) once, re- mote will unlock all the Doors. Please refer section starting and driving for more infor- mation. OPENING AND CLOSING @ NOTE If smart key battery is low/drained or ve- hicle battery is low/drained, user can unlock and enter into vehicle by using Emergency key blade. Provision is given on driver door

can unlock and enter into vehicle by using Emergency key blade. Provision is given on driver door handle only. Emergency Key Blade In / Out Slide the knob (1) to unlatch the key. Pul he key blade (2) out. 27  OPENING AND CLOSING Unlocking Door with Emergency Key + Slotis provided below driver door han- dle. + Insert the key blade in slot and turn clockwise to unlock the door. * Outer cover of door handle will be un- lock first. + Remove the cover to access the door lock slot. + Insert the key blade in slot and press. 28  SMART KEY FEATURES Force Panic On Operation When vehicle is in OFF condition, if we press lock button and unlock button simul- taneously, Force panic operation gets ac- tivated. In this case, turn indicators of vehicle start flashing and horn will blow au- tomatically. Force Panic Off Operation By pressing any button of smart key, Force panic operation gets deactivated. Vehicle Search n vehicle locked condition, if lock button on smart key is pressed, the turn indica-

Vehicle Search n vehicle locked condition, if lock button on smart key is pressed, the turn indica- ‘ors of vehicle flashes 4 times. Automatic Activation Of Immobilizer If smart key is not found within the passen- ger compartment, engine will be immobi- ized and vehicle cannot start. Auto Locking / Unlocking Of Doors / Auto Relock n PEPS variants, door will get unlocked when ignition is OFF by pressing Start Stop switch. Anti-grab / Anti-scan Coding The remote control set of this security sys- tem is protected against the use of devices called ‘scanners’ and ‘grabbers’ which can record and reproduce some types of re- mote codes. Important + Don’t operate Unlock button of remote in the vicinity of your vehicle, as it could lead to an unintentional unlock- ing your vehicle. + For battery, replacement procedure refer ‘MAINTENANCE’ section. * Do not remove the battery connection of the vehicle while the vehicle has been locked by remote. Smart Key Precautions 1. If smart key is close to

while the vehicle has been locked by remote. Smart Key Precautions 1. If smart key is close to radio transmitter such as radio station or an airport which can interfere with normal opera- tion of the transmitter. 2. |f smart key is near a mobile two way radio system or a cellular phone, then it will not work properly. 3. If another vehicle’s smart key is being OPENING AND CLOSING operated close to your vehicle, signal will fluctuate. A\ WARNING Keep smart key away from electromag- netic materials that blocks electromag- netic waves to the key surface. 29  OPENING AND CLOSING FLIP KEY Unlocking all doors Approach Light/Tail gate unlatch Locking all doors . Folding key blade IN/OUT Unlocking all Doors Pressing the unlock button (1) of remote will unlock all the Doors. One flash is com- ing on side indicators. Approach Light Press approach light button (2) once, low beam and positon lamp will turn ‘ON’. This 30 Rens feature helps to find and reach the parked vehicle or to reach home in

will turn ‘ON’. This 30 Rens feature helps to find and reach the parked vehicle or to reach home in dark/ cloudy condition after parking. Red LED will be flashing on the remote. To switch ‘OFF’ the approach lights, press and release the same button or it automatically turns ‘OFF’ after certain time. Tail Gate Unlatch To unlatch the Tail gate, long press the ap- proach light button (2) on remote for more than 2 sec. @NOTE Tail gate once unlatched will not get lock automatically with doors. It will get locked by slamming. Locking all Doors Pressing the Lock button (3) once, remote locks all the doors of the vehicle. Folding Key Blade IN / OUT Press button (4) to flip out the key blade. For folding, press the button (4) and fold the key blade inside. Do not fold the key blade without press- ing the button. Also, it should not be forced in any direction apart from fold- ing direction to avoid damage to flip mechanism.  FLIP KEY FEATURES Force Panic ON Operation When vehicle is in OFF

avoid damage to flip mechanism.  FLIP KEY FEATURES Force Panic ON Operation When vehicle is in OFF condition, if we press lock button and unlock button simul- taneously, Force panic operation gets ac- tivated. In this case, turn indicators of vehicle start flashing and horn will blow au- tomatically. Force Panic OFF Operation By pressing any button of smart key, Force panic operation gets deactivated. Vehicle Search In vehicle, locked condition if lock button on remote key is pressed the turn indica- tors of vehicle flashes for 4 times. Automatic Activation of Immobilizer If key is removed from ignition switch, the engine will be immobilized automatically even if you forget to lock the vehicle. For few variant, Ignition off is required to immobilize the vehicle. Auto Locking / Unlocking of Doors / Auto Relock + Vehicle doors are automatically locked when all doors are closed and the ve- hicle speed crosses 10 kmph. + When key is taken out all the doors get automatically unlocked. +

hicle speed crosses 10 kmph. + When key is taken out all the doors get automatically unlocked. + For few variant, when ignition is turned off all the doors get automatically un- locked. Also, when unlocked with remote key and if no door is opened within 30 seconds, ve- hicle doors get automatically locked. Anti-grab / Anti-scan Coding The remote control set of this security sys- tem is protected against the use of devices called ‘scanners’ and ‘grabbers’ which can record and reproduce some types of re- mote codes. In case any button of the key is acciden- tally pressed for more than 20 seconds, the remote stops functioning till the time the button is pressed. The LED on the Remote also stops glowing. The func- tion of the remote gets reinstated imme- diately when the user stops pressing OPENING AND CLOSING the push button of remote. Vehicle Alarm & Security To prevent automobile thefts, the anti-theft system makes use of an anti-theft alarm (ATA). On detection of any unauthorized

the anti-theft system makes use of an anti-theft alarm (ATA). On detection of any unauthorized access, the BCM triggers the horn (acoustic alarm) and flashes the turn indi- cators. 31  OPENING AND CLOSING DOOR Option 1: Door Lock and Unlock with Key Driver / front passenger doors can be locked or unlocked from outside using the key blade. Insert the key and turn it clockwise to lock and anticlockwise to unlock the door. 32 Option 2: Door Locking / Unlocking using Door Handle Switch (DHS) To lock/unlock all the doors without oper- ating smart key button/ key blade. Press the door handle switch (DHS) provided on the driver door to lock/unlock all the four doors except tailgate. Horn Honking when Door Locking using Door Handle Switch (DHS) If vehicle is in unlock condition and smart key is not available, (i.e. Smart Key is present away from authentication range) and if you try to lock the vehicle through door handle switch then vehicle horn honking gets activated for 9 sec. If vehicle is

through door handle switch then vehicle horn honking gets activated for 9 sec. If vehicle is in unlock condition and Smart key is present inside the vehicle. If you try to press the door handle switch then vehi- cle horn honking gets activated for 9 sec. OTE + Authentication range for smart key shall be 1 to 1.5 meter from outside the respective door or Tail gate. + Passive entry only works during ig- nition off.  Locking without a Key from Inside All the doors can also be locked from in- side by pressing knob on driver door and independently on other doors respectively. Unlocking the Doors from Inside 1. Door opening knob 2. Door opening Lever All doors can be opened from inside. To open, pull the door opening knob (1) and then opening lever (2). @ NOTE There is a single pull override feature on driver door. All door can be unlocked by inner handle without operating lock knob of inner handle. OPENING AND CLOSING WINDOWS Power Windows (if available) 1. Front Window Winding Switch

handle. OPENING AND CLOSING WINDOWS Power Windows (if available) 1. Front Window Winding Switch (Right) 2. Front Window Winding Switch (Left) 3. 4 5 Rear Window Winding Switch (Right) . Rear Window Winding Switch (Left) . Inhibit Switch Window glasses on all four doors can be operated by switches provided on the main control panel located on the driver’s arm rest. They work only when the key is in the ‘IGN ON’ position. 33  OPENING AND CLOSING @ NOTE Power windows can be operated for 30 sec. in ‘IGN OFF’ and ‘KEY OUT’ posi- tion, provided doors are not open. Express Down (if available) Window glasses can be opened by a sin- gle long press of the switch. Express down feature is provided for the driver’s door only. Anti-pinch Function (if available) The Anti-pinch module is provided. It will stop window upward movement if any ob- 34 struction or resistance detected. Thus, it gives full and reliable protection for hand, neck and any obstacles as well. Anti-pinch function is provided for

reliable protection for hand, neck and any obstacles as well. Anti-pinch function is provided for driver door only. Individual Switches Individual window winding switches have been provided for front passenger and rear passengers. Glasses are wound up by pulling the switch and are lowered by pressing. AX WARNING While raising the glass, take care to avoid fingers/hands getting trapped be- tween glass and the door frame. Inhibit Switch (if available)  Inhibit Switch ON When switch is pressed, red light turns ‘OFF’. The individual switches pro- vided on rear and front passenger door cannot be operated. “Still it can be operated from the switches on driver’s arm rest. Inhibit Switch OFF When switch is pressed, red light turns ‘ON’. The individual switches pro- vided on rear and front ? passenger door can be operated. It can also be operated from the switches on dri- ver’s arm rest. AX WARNING + If children operate the windows they could be get trapped, particularly if they are left

WARNING + If children operate the windows they could be get trapped, particularly if they are left unsupervised. There is a risk of injury. + Activate the window inhibit feature when children are travelling. While leaving the vehicle, always take the key with you and lock the vehicle. Never leave children unsupervised in the vehicle. OPENING AND CLOSING BONNET Opening the Bonnet 1. Ensure that the vehicle is in neutral gear with the parking brake applied. 2. Pull the bonnet release lever. The bon- net will pop up slightly. 3. Raise the bonnet slightly and with your finger lift (up) the secondary lock lever located under the bonnet center. 35  OPENING AND CLOSING Closing 1. To close the bonnet, hold the bonnet by one hand, disengage the stay rod and clamp it back properly. 2. Lower the bonnet close to the bumper, then let it drop down. [ARNING Ensure that the bonnet is properly locked before driving or it can fly up un- LA mu LA = expectedly during driving. Engine Bonnet Stay rod )

before driving or it can fly up un- LA mu LA = expectedly during driving. Engine Bonnet Stay rod ) Make sure that the wiper arms are not raised before you lift up the bonnet to avoid damaging the wiper arms and the bonnet. + The stay rod can be hot enough to burn your finger right after driving. To avoid this, use rubber packing given on stay rod. 4. Lift the bonnet up. Pull the bonnet stay + Touch the rod after it becomes cool rod from its clip and insert the free end enough. into the slot provided on frame. + Insert the stay rod into the hole se- curely. If the rod drops off, your body may be caught below the bonnet. 36  OPENING AND CLOSING TAILGATE OPENING (as available) Option Il Option Ill @ NOTE Some variants may have multiple op- tions. Option | When user press the Tail gate button on __If vehicle is locked and tail gate is closed. remote, Tail gate gets unlatched. Tail gate switch is pressed with valid smart @ key in the authentication range, Tail gate NOTE gets unlatched.

is pressed with valid smart @ key in the authentication range, Tail gate NOTE gets unlatched. Press the tail gate button on smart key | AXWARNING sd and press the tail gate door handle WARNING Remote operated Tail gate unlatching can switch within 30 seconds to open it. + After unlatching, tailgate doesn’t get be done through long press (2 sec) ap- opened automatically. proach light button on remote key. * Tailgate should not be opened hold- ing tailgate garnish, this might dam- age the part. It is suggested to open through tailgate edge. 37  OPENING AND CLOSING On closing the tail gate door, Tail gates gets locked. @ NOTE + During closing Tail gate if doors are in locked condition and valid smart key is inside the trunk, then Tail gate can be unlocked by pressing tail- gate switch. * Tail gate once unlatch it will not get locked automatically with other doors. + For Tail gate unlatch remote opera- tion, vehicle shall be in OFF mode. + If doors are in unlocked condition, Tail gate can

opera- tion, vehicle shall be in OFF mode. + If doors are in unlocked condition, Tail gate can be unlocked via Tail gate handle switch independent of smart key. + Avoid keeping smart key inside the boot space area while closing Tail gate. 38 WARNING Tail gate can’t be locked using mechan- ical key/ flip key/ smart key. It can be locked by slamming it. Option IV (Emergency Tailgate Open- ing) In emergency situation like key or vehicle battery is discharged or electrical malfunc- tioning, you can unlock the tailgate from in- side as per procedure given below: 1. Open driver door using mechanical key. 2. Open the rear door. Fold the rear seat. 4. And access the tailgate opening lever from inside. . Turn the lever clockwise to unlatch and open the tailgate. @ NOTE This can be used in emergency when you are inside the vehicle.  FUEL LID 1. To open the fuel flap, gently press on fuel flap. Make sure the smart key should be in authentication range and the vehicle is in unlock condition. @

Make sure the smart key should be in authentication range and the vehicle is in unlock condition. @ NOTE For mechanical/flip key (without smart key), to open the fuel flap. Make sure that vehicle is in unlock condition. Then gently press the fuel flap. 2. Open the fuel flap by gently pressing flap. 3. To open the fuel cap by turning it in counter clockwise for fuel filling. 4. For closing, close the fuel cap and gently push the fuel flap till it gets locked. A\ WARNING + Fuel vapour is extremely haz- ardous. Always switch ‘OFF’ the en- gine before refueling and never refill near sparks or open flames. Do not use cell phone while refueling. + Donot continue adding fuel after the automatic shut ‘OFF’ function is op- erated if it is equipped on the fuel station. Overfilling the fuel tank could damage the fuel system. @ NOTE + Remove the fuel filler cap slowly, and wait for any hissing to stop. The fuel may be under pressure and may spray out. + When smart key is inside the car, fuel flap

The fuel may be under pressure and may spray out. + When smart key is inside the car, fuel flap can be open by pressing OPENING AND CLOSING the flap. If fuel cap needs replacement, ensure that it is replaced by a genuine cap at the TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre only. 39  OPENING AND CLOSING POWER SUNROOF (if available) A Sunroof will make the driving experience more enjoyable by bringing light and sun- shine into the vehicle. It provides a real open air feeling along with pure driving fun. With fresh air, your driving experience automatically becomes significantly more relaxed. A sunroof allows air to flow evenly from above the driver, which is much quieter and less intrusive than wind blowing through a side window. 40 Location Of Controls And Their Func- tions Power Sunroof Switches Sunroof Open Sunroof Close Tilt Up Tilt Down Sunshade Open Sunshade Close QaRWN SD To operate the sliding sunroof and Rollo shade. Push the switch as shown in above fig. after every operation

the sliding sunroof and Rollo shade. Push the switch as shown in above fig. after every operation switch goes to Home position automatically. AX WARNING You must switch on the ignition to oper- ate the power sunroof. After switching off the ignition, You can still open or close the power sun-roof for 3 minutes as long as the driver or front passenger door has not been opened. 1. Sunshade Open Position  Push the switch (5) to open the Sun- shade. Express (one touch) open to open Sun- shade completely. Manual (long press) open and stop at de- sired position. 2. Sunshade Close Position OPENING AND CLOSING Push the switch (6) to close the Sun- shade. Express (one touch) close to close Sun- shade completely. Manual (long press) Close and stop at de- sired position 3. Sunroof Open Position A  OPENING AND CLOSING Push the switch (1) to open the Sunroof. Express (one touch) open to open Sun- roof completely. Manual (long press) open and stop at de- sired position. @ NOTE During sliding

roof completely. Manual (long press) open and stop at de- sired position. @ NOTE During sliding sunroof Express (one touch) open operation, Sunshade will also open in synchronization with slid- ing sunroof (Express Complete Open Feature). 42 4. Sunroof Close Position 5. Sunroof Tilt Open/close Position Push the switch (2) to close the Sunroof. Express (one touch) close to close sun- roof completely. Manual (long press) close and stop at de- sired position. Push the switch (3) for Sunroof Tilt Open. Push the switch (4) for Sunroof Tilt Close. Express (one touch) Tilt Open / Close sun- roof completely. Manual (long press) Tilt Open / Close and stop at desired position. Auto Sunroof Close Sliding Sunroof will automatically close under following conditions: + Rain detection- As soon as rain de- tected & Wiper speed is slow/high based on Rain, the Sunroof will close. * Ignition off and driver came out of the  vehicle by carrying the Remote key and driver locking the vehicle through

driver came out of the  vehicle by carrying the Remote key and driver locking the vehicle through remotely or through driver door. @ NOTE If the power sunroof malfunctions, pinch protection may not function properly. Visit an authorized TATA Motors dealer or an authorized TATA Motors Service Facility for assistance. AX WARNING + Without pinch protection, the power sunroof will close with enough force to cause serious personal injury. + Always be careful when closing the power sunroof. + Pinch protection cannot prevent fin- gers or other parts of the body from being pressed against the edge of the roof; may result in in-juries. Emergency Close Feature lf Express (One Touch) / Manual (long press) Sunroof and Sunshade close func- tion did not work due to: * Consecutive several attempts to Open / close Sunroof and Sun-shade. * Excessive Ice / Dirt accumulation on the Sunroof Glass / guiderails. Follow The Emergency Close Com- mand As Below: Emergency close feature can be used, if Sliding

Follow The Emergency Close Com- mand As Below: Emergency close feature can be used, if Sliding sunroof or Sunshade consecutive reversal movement observed 3 times within 10 sec then follow the steps given below: 1. On the 4th attempt continuously press the sunroof close switch - posi-tion (2) or Sunshade close switch - position (6) until it closes completely to ensure oc- cupant privacy, safety & theft preven- tion from Sunroof open window. This is Emergency Close Feature. OPENING AND CLOSING A\ WARNING Never keep your hands or head in the Sunroof window while performing this operation it may cause severe injury, since Anti-pinch function will not work at this 4th at-tempt. 2. Once the sunroof or Sunshade is com- pletely closed, release the switch. 3. Alternatively, User may wait for min. 30 secs before operating Sunroof and Sunshade, then Sunroof can be oper- ated with Normal Functions. @ NOTE If the Sunroof doesn’t operate as above, Visit an authorized TATA Motors dealer or an

@ NOTE If the Sunroof doesn’t operate as above, Visit an authorized TATA Motors dealer or an authorized TATA Motors Service Facility for assistance. Initializing The Power Sunroof Condition for initializing the sunroof If the vehicle battery is disconnected and reconnected during Sunroof / Sunshade movement or while replacing the dead 23  OPENING AND CLOSING fuse, the sunroof/ Sunshade must be ini- tialized. lease the Switch to complete the pro- cedure. If the initializing procedure is not com- pletely performed, then it has to be run again from step 2. Otherwise Express (one touch) function (open/close/tilt) and pinch protection func- tion will be deactivated. 10. The self-learning command is com- plete. Initializing command procedure: Self-learning procedure of Sunroof To initialize the sliding sunroof and Sun- " 5. Sliding sunroof and Sunshade shall be ch i il i - shade, use the following procedure: in open position within 4 mm to 200 cedure, ropect from step 1. of pro 1. Turn ON

procedure: in open position within 4 mm to 200 cedure, ropect from step 1. of pro 1. Turn ON the ignition. mm from the cutout. 2. Close the sunroof fully by pressing 6. Close the sunroof fully by pressing ‘sunroof close switch’ and keep the ‘sunroof close switch’ and keep the switch pressed for 1-2 seconds after switch pressed continuously. Do not * You can still open or close the the roof is fully closed, till clicking release the switch and wait for follow- power sunroof for 3 minutes after sound comes from Sunroof. ing actions to perform. you switch off the ignition, as long 3. Close the Sunshade fully by pressing 7. Sliding sunroof will start opening after as the driver or front passenger door ‘Sunshade close switch’ and keep the 5 sec pause and close automatically. has not been opened. switch pressed for 1-2 seconds after Release the Switch to complete the + To help prevent damage, remove the Sunshade is fully closed, till click- procedure. ice and snow from the sunroof be- ing

remove the Sunshade is fully closed, till click- procedure. ice and snow from the sunroof be- ing sound comes from Sun-shade. 8. Close the sunshade fully by pressing fore opening or tilting it in winter 4. The Initializing command is complete, ‘Sunshade close switch’ and keep the Seeeelt) Check if the Express open/close fea- switch pressed continuously. Do not + Always close the sunroof before tures are working. release the switch and wait for follow- leaving the vehicle or if it begins to ing actions to perform. rain. If the sunroof is open or tilted, 9. Sunshade will start opening after 5 sec rain could enter the vehicle interior 44 pause and close automatically. Re- Incase Sunroof and Sunshade Close and cause extensive damage to the  AX WARNING electrical system. This could result in further vehicle damage. Remove leaves and other objects from the sunroof guiderails regularly either by hand or using a vacuum cleaner. If the power sunroof malfunctions, pinch protection may not

by hand or using a vacuum cleaner. If the power sunroof malfunctions, pinch protection may not function properly. See an authorized TATA Motors dealer or an authorized TATA Motors Service Facility. The Sunshade can be opened and closed independently when the slid- ing sunroof is in closed position but will not operate in case sliding sun- roof is open or in tilt position. Always close the sunroof while washing the vehicle. Improper use of the power sunroof can result in serious personal injury. Always make sure that no one is in the Path/Cutout of the power sun roof when it is Closing OR Opening Always take the key with you while leaving the vehicle. Never leave children or disabled persons in the vehicle particularly, if they have access to the vehicle key. Unsupervised use of the remote control vehicle key makes it possi- ble to lock the vehicle, start the en- gine, turn on the ignition and operate the sunroof. OPENING AND CLOSING 45  46  COCKPIT NOTE: All location shown may not be

and operate the sunroof. OPENING AND CLOSING 45  46  COCKPIT NOTE: All location shown may not be applicable to your vehicle / Variants. DASHBOARD AND FEATURES 1 A.C. Air vent 2 |Airbag (PAB) Infotainment Display (if avail- 3 able) 4 |Combi-Switch 5 |Horn pad 6 |Start/Stop switch (if available) 7 |Airbag (DAB) Steering Wheel Switches (if 8 available) 9 |Controls 10 |Foot Rest Terrain Response Knob (if 11 available) 12 |Cooled storage box 13 |Parking Brake Lever 14 |Gear Shift Lever 15 |HVAC Control panel 16 |Fascia switches 17 |Center Air Vent 18 |Glove Box 47  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES INSTRUMENT CLUSTER (TFT Screen) Tachometer Driver Information Display Speedometer DEF Gauge Temperature Gauge Fuel Gauge NOTE: All indicators shown may not be applicable to your vehicle. 48  Speedometer Speedometer indicates the vehicle speed in km/h. @ NOTE Whenever you turn the ignition ON, the instrument cluster needles and gauges move to maximum value and return to ‘0’ position. This is a welcome

cluster needles and gauges move to maximum value and return to ‘0’ position. This is a welcome strategy and a self-check feature. Tachometer a2" @ NORMAL Tachometer indicates engine speed in rev- olutions per min (rpm). A\ WARNING Never drive the vehicle with high engine rpm. This may cause severe engine damage. DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Fuel Gauge When the ignition switch is in “ON” posi- tion, fuel gauge gives an approximate in- dication of the amount of fuel in the fuel tank. In indication window, “F” stands for full and “E” stands for empty. When fuel in the tank is near to empty po- sition, low fuel warning telltale turns Amber. Refill the tank as soon as possible. 49  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES @ NOTE * Check the fuel level when the vehi- cle is stationary on a level road. + The fuel level displayed can vary when you drive on inclines, curves, brake and accelerate suddenly. This is due to the movement of fuel in the tank. The low fuel warning lamp may turn to ON or OFF earlier or later

the movement of fuel in the tank. The low fuel warning lamp may turn to ON or OFF earlier or later than usual. A\ WARNING If there is any fault in the system, the low fuel warning symbol will blink. Take your vehicle to the nearest TATA MO- TORS Authorized service centre. Temperature Gauge When the ignition switch is in the “ON” po- sition, this gauge indicates the engine coolant temperature. CC —— H The indicator should be within the normal, acceptable temperature range i.e. be- tween “H” and “C”. If the indicator ap- proaches “H”, overheating is indicated by red progress bar. If the coolant temperature is very high, the engine coolant temperature telltale flashes with an audio warning. In this case, stop the vehicle, switch ‘OFF’ the engine and allow it to cool down for some time. Con- tact the nearest TATA MOTORS author- ized service center immediately for rectification. WARNING The red progress bar on high coolant temperature indicates overheating that may damage the engine.

The red progress bar on high coolant temperature indicates overheating that may damage the engine. Continuing to drive the vehicle when engine overheat- ing is indicated can result in severe en- gine damage or fire. DEF Gauge When the ignition switch is in the “ON” po- sition, arrow in the gauge indicates level of DEF left in the tank. The Indicator should be within the accept- able range. i.e., between “E” and “F”. When DEF in tank is near to empty posi- tion, DEF telltale near to gauge will glow with subsequent Text alert on DIS Screen. If DEF level reaches to critically low level, then DEF Gauge will be replaced by the permanent text alert along with buzzer.  Similarly for Low DEF Quality & SCR Fault there are featured text and warnings pres- ent to alert the driver regarding condition of DEF System. AX WARNING lf DEF Level or DEF Quality or SCR Fault becomes Critical after suffi- cient alerts, warnings, Buzzers & If not rectified then Text alert will be displayed permanently on

cient alerts, warnings, Buzzers & If not rectified then Text alert will be displayed permanently on DIC Screen stating vehicle will not restart in next key ON & Vehicle will not start. lf any problem comes then, Take your vehicle to the nearest TATA MOTORS Authorized service cen- ter. Check the DEF Level when the ve- hicle is on level road. DEF Level Displayed may vary when you drive on inclines, de- clines, curves, brakes & accelerate suddenly. This is due to the move- ment of DEF in the tank. If SCR Fault issue comes the take your vehicle to the nearest TATA MOTORS Authorized service cen- ter. DASHBOARD AND FEATURES 51  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Driver Information System Odometer ODO 256894 km Indicates distance travelled by a vehicle. The odometer reading does not return to “O” when maximum value is reached, the dis- play will freeze to maximum value. Trip meterA& B Trip B 0000.0 km The trip meter can be used to measure the distance travelled on short trips or between fuel stops. It

trip meter can be used to measure the distance travelled on short trips or between fuel stops. It can be reset to “O”. The Trip meter reading becomes “0.0” after it crosses 9999.9 km. Clock Indicates current time in AM/PM mode. Whenever the battery terminals or related fuses are connected, you must reset the clock time. This feature is available when igni- tion switch is in ‘ON” position. NOTE: Clock settings can also be changed through infotainment system. For more information, refer infotainment manual. Power and Torque ny Power Torque Indicates the value of Power and Torque delivered by engine in the particular driving condition. 52  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Service reminder Indicates the number of days/kilometers in which service is due. If service is overdue, it will display “O” km or “O” days and spanner symbol will blink at every ignition ON for few seconds. Never reset the display between service intervals otherwise this may result in to incorrect readings. Information is

between service intervals otherwise this may result in to incorrect readings. Information is retained in the service interval display even after the vehicle battery is disconnected. NOTE: This option is for indicative purpose only. Keep track of your odometer reading and follow the maintenance schedule. Door Ajar Respective door open display pop up comes up for 5 sec and then minimize telltale glows with respective door open will displayed. Current gear position (indicator) (for MT & AT- Manual Mode) Current gear engaged by the transmission shall be displayed on DIS. NOTE: If “Fault” is displayed it means a ‘Fault’ condition. Contact the TATA MOTORS authorized service centre. In case of Manual Transmission, the gear number shall be dis- played when the clutch is fully released. 53  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Current gear position (indicator) (for AT) Current gear engaged by the transmission shall be displayed on DIS. NOTE: If “Fault” is displayed it means ‘Fault’ condition. Contact the

shall be displayed on DIS. NOTE: If “Fault” is displayed it means ‘Fault’ condition. Contact the TATA MOTORS Authorised Service Centre. In case of Automatic Transmission, the gear type P-Park, D-Drive, N-Neutral and R-Reverse will be displayed as per automatic gear selected. Gear Recommendation (for MT) Up or down arrow shall be displayed on DIS whenever a gear should be shifted up or down. No arrow shall be displayed when the selected gear is as per the vehicle dynamics. Driver Control Shift De- nied This message displayed when gear shift is denied in manual mode. User has to drive the vehicle in recommended speed to change the gear. Electronic Brake Distribu- tion Fault Electronic Brake Distribution (EBD) System Fault User has to take the vehicle to Authorized Tata motors service sta- tion. Transmission Oil Temper- ature High This message displayed when transmission oil temperature is higher than allowable limit. User has to take the vehicle to Authorized Tata motors service sta-

is higher than allowable limit. User has to take the vehicle to Authorized Tata motors service sta- tion. 54  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Transmission Failure Drive Cautiously Visit Service Centre {0} Transmission Malfunction Drive Cautiously Contact Customer Center This message displayed when transmission related failure is pres- ent. User has to take the vehicle to Authorized Tata mo tion. iors service sta- Transmission failure Mal- function detected contact service center {1} Transmission Malfunction Malfunction Detected Contact Customer Center This message displayed when transmission related failure is pres- ent. User has to take the vehicle to Authorized Tata Mo tion. iors service sta- Shift to Park to Exit A\ Transmission Alert Shift to Park (P) to Exit This message displayed when shift lever not in P ( park) mode. Shift to Park or Neutral to start the Engine A\ Transmission Alert Shift to Park or Neutral to Start Engine This message displayed when shift lever not in P ( tral) mode

to Park or Neutral to Start Engine This message displayed when shift lever not in P ( tral) mode while starting the engine. park) or N (neu- 55  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Instantaneous Fuel Economy (IFE) Power and Torque Average Fuel Economy (AFE) 0:16 ™110km/h 3 a1 i : E> B.Avvi 9 ary MANUAL i 1 TipA 333 km B) S7km/h ' PS} 4 2 57min |e BErmesf hime 0001113. km 1H ODO 1113 km It indicates fuel economy of current drive Indicates the amount of power and torque ‘iP A when Ignition is turned ‘ON’. delivered by engine in the particular driv- To reach the Instant Fuel Economy in the __ ing condition. Instrument cluster. Press the switch, which is on the RHS steering switch. The display does not show actual value unless vehicle is moving. @ NOTE Trip B ®_S7km/p si wb Ciw 1H ODO 1113 km + IFE will vary frequently as per driv- AFE value is estimate of fuel economy. It ing pattern. may vary significantly based upon driving + IFE display does not show Fuel conditions, driving habits and condition

based upon driving + IFE display does not show Fuel conditions, driving habits and condition of Economy of last drive. the vehicle. 56  To see the Average fuel economy in the In- strument cluster. Press the Bd switch on the RHS of the steering switch. Trip time, Average speed and Trip distance will reset to ‘0’ when respective Trip meter is reset. @ NOTE + Average Fuel Economy, Trip time and Average speed will get reset to ‘0’ when Battery is removed and re- fitted. + Average Fuel Economy will be dis- played as —.—‘for initial 0.5 km of respective trip. Once 0.5 km dis- tance is covered, Average Fuel Economy will be displayed. + Even after 0.5 km distance covered for particular trip, if Average Fuel Economy is displayed as —.—', then take your vehicle to TATA MO- TORS Authorized Service Centre. Distance To Empty (DTE) Distance To Empty Fer 3140 S7kinyt The above DTE screen indicates approxi- mate distance in ‘km’ that your vehicle can travel with available fuel in the tank. To reach

mate distance in ‘km’ that your vehicle can travel with available fuel in the tank. To reach the Distance to empty in the In- strument cluster. Press the switch, which is on RHS steering switch. DTE values may vary significantly based on driving conditions, driving habits, and condition of the vehicle. It is an estimate value of the available driving distance. If low fuel warning light turns ‘ON’, fill the fuel tank immediately regardless the value of displayed DTE. DASHBOARD AND FEATURES @ NOTE + If DTE is displayed as —-’, then take your vehicle to the TATA MO- TORS Authorized Service Centre. + The DTE will update with new value when fuel is added for more than 7 Litres at a time. Infotainment Information on Instrument Cluster Display unit. «FM 98.3 MHz The Instrument Cluster will display the In- fotainment information like Media, Naviga- tion and FM. 57  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Setting Screen © Settings Press. @& Toknter You can enter into setting screen by press- ing select button

Screen © Settings Press. @& Toknter You can enter into setting screen by press- ing select button while being in setting screen. Following options are displayed in the set- ting screen: cre tH 000 1113 km seer 58 To change the option from unit to service reminder reset by pressing on the RHS of steering switch. Illumination Screen You can select illumination setting by scroll down using up or down on the RHS steering switch and by pressing select button. You can increase the Illumination from (20% to100%) in 5 steps by pressing on he RHS of steering switch. Following screen gets displayed: Msmination 60 Service Reminder Reset You can select Service reminder reset screen by scroll down & pressing set but- ton in settings screen. You can select Yes or No option by up or down arrows & set button. 10" Service Reset Service Reminder? WR cance In setting menu if there is no user input for 10 sec, previous screen shall be dis- played.  About Screen You can select about option by scroll up or

previous screen shall be dis- played.  About Screen You can select about option by scroll up or down and pressing set button on RHS steering switches. It displays open source license disclosure. @ NOTE Pressing select button while in about screen, the screen will close and go to previous screen. Outside Ambient Temperature Distance To Empty This displays outside ambient temperature in units of °C with the resolution of 1 °C. The temperature sensor is located on the front bumper of the vehicle, therefore the temperature reading can be affected by heat reflection from the road surface, en- gine heat and the exhaust from surround- ing traffic. DASHBOARD AND FEATURES For an accurate temperature reading, make sure the vehicle speed is above 30 kmph. A\ WARNING If display shows OAT temp as “- - “, take your car to a TATA authorized service Centre. Tire Pressure Monitoring System (TPMS) You can select TPMS screen by pressing up or down on the RHS of the steering switch. @ NOTE When start the

select TPMS screen by pressing up or down on the RHS of the steering switch. @ NOTE When start the vehicle or make ignition ON it may happen Pressure & Temp value show “—”. Driver has to drive the vehicle for some time with particular Speed to update the TPMS pressure and Temperature value’s If value’s not updated and display shows “—” with 59  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES warning message then take vehicle to TPMS screen with low tire pressure: TPMS screen with high tire pressure: service center. +4) High Tire Pressure TPMS screen with no fault: 1) Low Tire Pressure Deflate Tire Inflate Tire » 32, = Tire Pressure 32 GR. x. 32 32 @NOTE @ NOTE 32 32 If tyre pressure is low, then you will get If tyre pressure is high, then you will get — to see the red hollow mark on that tyre to see the red filled mark on that tyre in to) 57 km/h in the Instrument Cluster. the Instrument Cluster. 60  TPMS screen with combination of failures in tires: TPMS Error Check Tires = a bs TPMS screen with TPMS ECU

with combination of failures in tires: TPMS Error Check Tires = a bs TPMS screen with TPMS ECU Malfunc- tion: TPMS Malfunction Contact Service Centre TPMS screen with Air leakage: Leakage Detected ® Check Tires 32 -. 32 & lh 32 ' [psi] DASHBOARD AND FEATURES 61  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Display Messages on Instrument Cluster Below messages can be displayed in the screen for 3 sec based on the priority. Warning Messages (messages displayed within the Red border) Over Speeding Detected Slow Down UP stim Cre IH ODO 113km NOTE: All messages may not be applicable to your vehicle Fasten Seat Belt - Driver Seat Belt Reminder Fasten Driver Seat Belt Speed Limit Warning Speed Limit Warning Over Speeding Detected Slow Down Transmission Failure Drive Cautiously Visit Service Center Transmission Malfunction Drive Cautiously Contact Service Center Drive Control Shift Denied Drive Mode Warning Drive Control Shift Denied Hill Hold Control Failure Hill Hold Control Malfunction Detected Contact Service

Shift Denied Hill Hold Control Failure Hill Hold Control Malfunction Detected Contact Service Center Ora) w fl n| = Hill Decent Control Failure Hill Decent Control Malfunction Detected Contact Service Center 62  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES 7 Fuel Level Low State Fuel Level Warning Fuel Level Low 8 Fasten seat belt front passenger Seat Belt Reminder Fasten Front passenger Seat Belt 9 Transmission Failure Limp home Acti- Transmission System Malfunction Detected Contact Service Center vated Visit Service Center 10 |DEF level warning 1 DEF Level Low DEF Level Low Refill Soon . c Engine Stops in “Value” Km 11. |DEF level warning 2 DEF Level Low Refill DEF . c Engine Stops in “Value” Km 12 |DEF level warning 3 DEF Level Low Refill DEF . c Engine Stops in “Value” Km 13 |DEF level warning 4 DEF Level Low Refill DEF . c Engine Stops in “Value” Km 14 |DEF level warning 5 DEF Level Low Refill DEF 15 |DEF level warning 6 DEF Level Low Engine Will Not Restart In Next Key On . c Engine Stop 16 |DEF

|DEF level warning 6 DEF Level Low Engine Will Not Restart In Next Key On . c Engine Stop 16 |DEF level warning 7 DEF Level Low DEF Tank Empty DEF Quality Low 17 _|DEF quality warning 1 DEF Quality Low Check DEF System . . c . Engine Stops in “Value” Km 18 |DEF quality warning 2 DEF Quality Low Check DEF System 19 |DEF quality warning 3 DEF Quality Low Engine Stops in “Value” Km Check DEF System 63  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Engine Stops in “Value” Km 20 |DEF quality warning 4 DEF Quality Low Check DEF System c . . . Engine Stops in “Value” Km 21 DEF quality warning 5 DEF Quality Low Check DEF System 22 |DEF quality warning 6 DEF Quality Low Engine Will Not Restart In Next Key On c . . . Engine Stop 23 |DEF quality warning 7 DEF Quality Low Check DEF System c F SCR System Fault 24 |DEF fault warning 1 SCR System Fault Contact Service Centre c . Engine Stops in “Value” Km 25 |DEF fault warning 2 DEF System Fau Contact Service Centre c . Engine Stops in “Value” Km 26 |DEF fault warning 3

2 DEF System Fau Contact Service Centre c . Engine Stops in “Value” Km 26 |DEF fault warning 3 DEF System Fau Contact Service Centre c . Engine Stops in “Value” Km 27 ~+|DEF fault warning 4 DEF System Fau Contact Service Centre c . Engine Stops in “Value” Km 28 |DEF fault warning 5 DEF System Fau Contact Service Centre 29 |DEF fault warning 6 DEF System Fau Engine Will Not Restart In Next Key On c . Engine Stop 30 |DEF fault warning 7 DEF System Fau Contact Service Centre 31 |Park Brake Fault Park Brake Fault Malfunction Detected Contact Service Cen re 64  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Alert Messages (messages displayed within Grey border) > ‘\ Lamp Alert Auto Headlamp Activated \ = WL stem |, Berm FB Clm IH ODO 1113 km NOTE: All messages may not be applicable to your vehicle. Sn_ Alert / Information Title Alert Message Title Action To Be Taken 1 HDC Deactivation Due To Speed Hill Decent Control System Deactivated Speed Crossed Set Above Set Value Limit 2 Park Brake Engaged Brake Alert Park

System Deactivated Speed Crossed Set Above Set Value Limit 2 Park Brake Engaged Brake Alert Park Brake Engaged 3 Electronic Stability Off Electronic Stability System ESP Turned Off 4 Traction Control Off Traction Control System TCS Turned Off 5 Hill Descent Control Active Hill Descent Control HDC Activated 6 Auto Headlamp Lamp Alert Auto Headlamp Activated 7 Resume to Target Speed Not Pos- Cruise Control Change gear to resume Cruise Speed sible in Current Gear 65  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Sn_ Alert / Information Title Alert Message Title Action To Be Taken 8 Cruise Override Cruise Control Cruise Override 9 Hill Descent Control Switched On_|Hill Descent Control HDC Turned ON 10 Shift to Park (PIN) . vehicle Start Transmission Alert Shift to Park or Neutral to Start Engine function for AT vehicle 11. |Park Brake Alert Park Brake Alert Park Brake Applied 12 |Park Brake Alert Park Brake Alert Park Brake Not Applied 13 |AVH Malfunction Auto Hold Malfunction Detected Contact Service Centre 66

Park Brake Not Applied 13 |AVH Malfunction Auto Hold Malfunction Detected Contact Service Centre 66  Drive Alert @ NOTE + This alerts is for Manual Trans-mis- sion (MT) vehicle. + The warnings are generated post faulty drive event and is not the live event. + The fault is logged after the clutch pedal is fully released and gear in- formation received. Drive the vehicle below 10km/hr in 1st Sticker for Drive Alert Gear. @ NOTE + This Message is not related to any issue or fault in vehicle. It is just Pre- alert customer from clutch malfunc- tion. * When User drive the vehicle in higher gear than 1st gear & vehicle speed is below 10 Kmph. * When vehicle is launched from standstill condition in 2nd Gear. DASHBOARD AND FEATURES 67  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Interrupt Messages Cr = =§H ODO 1113 km NOTE: All messages may not be applicable to your vehicle. Rotate steering wheel (In ESCL jam condition) Press Start Button while Turning Wheel Smart key out of range Smart Key Out of Range Drive

Press Start Button while Turning Wheel Smart key out of range Smart Key Out of Range Drive Alert - Tea Break Take a Break Steering Failure-Visit Garage Steering Failure Contact Service Center Steering Failure-Stop Driving Steering Failure Stop the Vehicle Safely Door Ajar Door open TPMS No Fault Tire Pressure CO} N| ®) om) B) Ww) M| => TPMS Low Pressure Low Tire Pressure - Inflate Tire 68  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES 9 TPMS High Pressure High Tire Pressure - Deflate Tire 10 TPMS High Temperature Tire Overheated Slow Down 11 Combination alerts Check Tires 12 Malfunction TPMS Malfunction - Contact Service Centre 13 Air Leak Leakage Detected Check Tires 14 Fault TPMS Error - Check Tires 15 ESCL Press Start Button While Turning Wheel 16 No Key Smart Key Out of Range 17 Low Key Battery Smart Key Battery Low Replace Battery 18 Press Clutch Pedal Press Clutch Pedal to Start Engine 19 Press Brake Pedal Press Brake Pedal to Start Engine 20 Drive Modes Respective drive mode 21 Tea Break Take a Break

Press Brake Pedal to Start Engine 20 Drive Modes Respective drive mode 21 Tea Break Take a Break 22 Release Park Brake Press Brake Pedal to Release Park Brake 23 Happy Birthday Happy Birthday 69  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES INSTRUMENT CLUSTER (LCD SCREEN) Tachometer Driver Information Display Fuel Gauge Speedometer 3OOT OPEN O8 7 fo) 30 30 “Tae BEBBB en £Ces@@@H Setknob Temperature Gauge Mode knob NOTE: All indicators shown may not be applicable to your vehicle 70  Speedometer Speedometer indicates the vehicle speed in km/h. @ NOTE Whenever you turn the ignition ON, the instrument cluster needles and gauges move to maximum value and return to ‘0’ position. This is a welcome strategy and a self-check feature. Tachometer 3 pm x 1000 Tachometer indicates engine speed in rev- olutions per min (rpm). A\ WARNING Never drive the vehicle with high engine ‘rpm’. This may cause severe engine damage. DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Fuel Gauge When the ignition switch is in “ON” posi- tion, fuel gauge gives an

AND FEATURES Fuel Gauge When the ignition switch is in “ON” posi- tion, fuel gauge gives an approximate in- dication of the amount of fuel in the fuel tank. “F” stands for full and “E” stands for empty. E “/- F When fuel in the tank is near to empty po- sition, low fuel warning telltale turns Amber. Refill the tank as soon as possible. @ NOTE * Check the fuel level when the vehi- cle on a level road. + The fuel level displayed can vary when you drive on inclines, curves, brake and accelerate suddenly. This is due to the movement of fuel in the tank. The low fuel warning lamp may turn to ON or OFF earlier or later than usual. 71  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES A\ WARNING If there is any fault in the system, the low fuel warning symbol will start blink- ing. Take your vehicle to the nearest TATA MOTORS authorized service cen- tre. 72 Temperature Gauge When the ignition switch is in the “ON” po- sition, this gauge indicates the engine coolant temperature. The indicator should stay within the

sition, this gauge indicates the engine coolant temperature. The indicator should stay within the nor- mal, acceptable temperature range be- tween “H” and “C”. If the indicator approaches “H”, overheating is indicated by a red bar. If the coolant temperature reading is very high, the engine coolant temperature tell- tale flashes with an audible buzzer. In this case, stop the vehicle, switch ‘OFF’ the engine and cool it down for some time. Contact the nearest TATA MOTORS Au- thorized Service Centre immediately for rectification. WARNING The Red bar on high coolant tempera- ture warning indicates overheating that may damage the engine. Continuing to drive the vehicle when engine overheat- ing is indicated can result in severe en- gine damage or fire. IFE Gauge It indicates fuel economy of current drive when Ignition is turned ‘ON’. To reach the Instant Fuel Economy in the Instrument cluster. Press the SET and MODE button. The display does not show actual value unless vehicle is moving.

Press the SET and MODE button. The display does not show actual value unless vehicle is moving.  + IFE will vary frequently as per driv- ing pattern. + IFE display does not show Fuel Economy of last drive. DEF Gauge When the ignition switch is in the “ON” po- sition, this gauge indicates level of DEF left in the tank. DEF The Indicator should be within the accept- able range. i.e., between “E” and “F”. When DEF in tank is near to empty posi- tion, DEF tell tale near to gauge will glow with subsequent text messages on LCD screen. To change screen over from IFE to DEF Gauge press mode button. If DEF level reaches to critically low level, only DEF gauge will be displayed. Screen will not change over to IFE in that case. Similarly for Low DEF Quality & SCR Fault there are featured text and warnings pres- ent to alert the driver regarding condition of DEF System. WARNING + If DEF Level or DEF Quality or SCR Fault becomes critical after defined interval of warnings text alert will be

or DEF Quality or SCR Fault becomes critical after defined interval of warnings text alert will be displayed permanently on LCD screen stating vehicle will not restart in next key ON. + On getting defined text messages related to Quality and SCR Fault, take your vehicle to the nearest TATA MOTORS Authorized service center. @ NOTE * Check the DEF Level when the ve- hicle is on level road. + DEF Level Displayed may vary when you drive on inclines, de DASHBOARD AND FEATURES clines, curves, brakes & accelerate suddenly. This is due to the move- ment of DEF in the tank. + If SCR Fault issue comes then take your vehicle to the nearest TATA MOTORS Authorized service cen- tre. + IFE gauge and DEF Gauge can be display in rotation with all combina- tions when DEF level in vehicle is not critical. 73  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Driver Information System Odometer ono [4234 km Indicates distance travelled by a vehicle. The Odometer reading does not return to “O” when maximum value is reached, the dis-

by a vehicle. The Odometer reading does not return to “O” when maximum value is reached, the dis- play will freeze to maximum value. Trip meterA & B The trip meter can be used to measure the distance travelled on short trips or between fuel stops. It can be reset to “0”. The Trip meter reading becomes “0.0” after it crosses 9999.9 km. Indicates current time in AM/PM mode. Clock time can be changed using ‘SET’ & ‘MODE’ knob. Whenever the battery terminals or related fuses are connected, nen Clock w.uU 5 you must reset the clock time. This feature is available when ig- OAM nition switch is in ON’ position. NOTE: Clock settings can also be changed through infotainment system. For more information, refer infotainment manual. Door Ajar This warning will be indicated when driver door is open. NOTE: If any other door is open, the roof lamp will be ‘ON’. 74  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Service reminder iCnke Indicates the number of days/kilometers in which service is due. If service is overdue, it

iCnke Indicates the number of days/kilometers in which service is due. If service is overdue, it will display “O” km or “O” days and span- ner symbol will blink at every ignition ON for few seconds. Never reset the display between service intervals otherwise this may result in to incorrect readings. Information is retained in the serv- ice interval display even after the vehicle battery is discon- nected. NOTE: This option is for indicative purpose only. Keep track of your odometer reading and follow the maintenance schedule. Current gear position indi- cator (For MT) Current gear engaged by the transmission shall be displayed on Driver Information System. NOTE: If “F’ is displayed it means a ‘Fault’ condition. Contact the TATA MOTORS authorized service centre. In case of Manual Transmission, the gear number shall be dis- played when the clutch is fully released. Gear Recommendation Up or down arrow shall be displayed on DIS whenever a gear should be shifted up or down. No arrow shall

down arrow shall be displayed on DIS whenever a gear should be shifted up or down. No arrow shall be displayed when the selected gear is as per the vehicle dynamics. 75  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Driver Information Current gear position indi- cator (For AT) System Image P| Park Reverse Neutral Drive Description Current gear engaged by the transmission shall be displayed on DIS. NOTE: If “F” is displayed it means ‘Fault’ condition. Contact the TATA MOTORS Authorised Service Centre. In case of Automatic Transmission, the Gear numbers shall be displayed as per automatic gear selected. 76  Average Fuel Economy (AFE) nn UU km/ Trip time, Average speed and Trip distance will reset to ‘0’ when respective Trip meter is reset. Average Fuel Economy will be displayed as ‘—.—‘for initial 0.5 km of respective trip. Once 0.5 km distance is covered, Average Fuel Economy will be displayed. Even after 0.5 km distance covered for particular trip, if Average fuel economy is displayed as ‘—.—", then take

km distance covered for particular trip, if Average fuel economy is displayed as ‘—.—", then take your vehicle to TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre. @ NOTE + AFE value is an estimate of fuel economy. It may vary significantly based upon driving conditions, driv ing habits and condition of vehicle. + Average Fuel Consumption will get Reset to ‘0’ when Battery is re- moved and refitted. Distance To Empty (DTE) The above image indicates an approxi- mate distance in ‘km’ that your vehicle can travel with available fuel in tank. DTE values may vary significantly based on driving conditions, driving habits, and condition of the vehicle. It is an estimate value of the available driving distance. The DTE will update with new value when fuel is added more than 7 litres at a time. If low fuel warning light turns ‘ON’, fill the fuel tank immediately regardless the value of displayed DTE. DASHBOARD AND FEATURES If DTE is displayed as —-’, then take your vehicle to the TATA MOTORS au- thorized

AND FEATURES If DTE is displayed as —-’, then take your vehicle to the TATA MOTORS au- thorized service centre. Instrument Cluster Illumination Instrument cluster illumination & backlight illumination will turn on after Park lamp is ON. Illumination can be changed by SET but- ton short press (less than 1.5 seconds). 77  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES A\ WARNING The clock and instrument cluster illumi- nation settings should be changed only when the vehicle is in stationary condi- tion for safety purposes. 78 Outside Ambient Temperature so° This displays outside ambient temperature in units of °C with the resolution of 1 °C. The temperature sensor is located on the front bumper of the vehicle, therefore the temperature reading can be affected by heat reflection from the road surface, en- gine heat and the exhaust from surround- ing traffic. @NOTE + [If temperature fault is present then screen changes automatically for every IGN cycle to show tempera- ture readings. * Do not use any type of

changes automatically for every IGN cycle to show tempera- ture readings. * Do not use any type of liquid solu- tions or chemical solutions to avoid failure in sensor functionality. TPMS Screens @ NOTE When start the vehicle or make ignition ON it may happen Pressure & Temp value show “—”. Driver has to drive the vehicle for some time with particular Speed to update the TPMS pressure and Temperature value’s If value’s not updated and display shows ‘“—” with warning message then take vehicle to service center. TPMS screen with no fault  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES TPMS screen with low tire pressure TPMS screen with combination of failures | TPMS screen with Malfunction in tires 79  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Display Messages on Instrument Cluster 80 PRESSURE Mf ciry LO & 30 30 woh 30 psi 0 a 1 |Speed Limit Warning OVER SPEED HDC Deactivation Due To 2 Speed Above Set Value HDC DEACTIVE 3 |Engine Is Locked ENGINE LOCKED 4 |Low Brake Fluid LOW BRAKE FLUID 5 |Electronic Stability Off ESP OFF 6

Is Locked ENGINE LOCKED 4 |Low Brake Fluid LOW BRAKE FLUID 5 |Electronic Stability Off ESP OFF 6 |Hill Decent Control Active |HDC ACTIVE 7 |Service Reminder Days |SERVICE DUE 8 |Service Reminder Kms SERVICE DUE 9 |Fuel Level Low State LOW FUEL 10 |Drive Alert1 - Tea Break |TAKEABREAK 11 |Smart key out of range KEY OUT OF RANGE Rotate steering wheel (In 12 ESCL jam condition) ( ROTATE STEERING Resume to Target Speed 13 |Not Possible in Current UNABLE TO RESUME Gear 14 |Cruise off CRUISE OFF 15 |Cruise deactivated/cancel | CRUISE CANCELLED NOTE: All messages may not be applicable to your vehicle.  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Cruise is Resuming to set ENG NOT START AFTER 16 speed CRUISE RESUMED 28 /DEF Level Low Level3 fayar Ye KM 17 |Press Clutch for MT PRESS CLUTCH - ENG NOT START AFTER 29 |DEF Level Low Level 4 i" 18 |Press Brake for MT PRESS BRAKE VALUE” KM Transmission Failure Limp 30 |DEF Level Low Level 5 ENG NOT START AFTER 19 |home Activated Visit Serv- | AT FAULT VALUE” KM ice

|DEF Level Low Level 5 ENG NOT START AFTER 19 |home Activated Visit Serv- | AT FAULT VALUE” KM ice Center 31 |DEF Level Low Level 6 ENG NOT START NEXT Shift to Park (P) - vehicle KEY ON 20 |Stop function for AT vehi- |SHIFT-> P 32 |DEF Level Low Level 7 ENG STOP DEF EMPTY cle 33 |DEF Quality Low Level 1 /LOW DEF QLTY Shift to Park (P/N) - vehi- _ : LOW DEF QLTY ENG OFF 21 |cle Start function for AT | SHIFT->P/N 34 |DEF Quality Low Level 2. Javai ye» KM vehicle _ . LOW DEF QLTY ENG OFF 22 |TPMS Error TPMS ERROR 35 )DEF Quality Low Level 3. javai ye KM 23 |TPMS Pressure Warning |CHECK TIRE PRESSURE Z : LOW DEF QLTY ENG OFF 24 |Jet Pump Fault FUEL SYS FAULT 36 /DEF Quality Low Level 4 lw jai Yer KM Transmission oil temp c F LOW DEF QLTY ENG OFF 25 high AT TEMP HIGH 37 |DEF Quality Low Level 5 “VALUE” KM gg [DEF LevelLowLevel1 [pee | ow REFILL SOON 38 |DEF Quality Low Level 6 Saar re 27 +|DEF Level Low Level 2 ENG NOT START AFTER 39 |DEF Quality Low Level 7 abhi ia “VALUE” KM STOP 81

+|DEF Level Low Level 2 ENG NOT START AFTER 39 |DEF Quality Low Level 7 abhi ia “VALUE” KM STOP 81  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Sn_ Warning Title/ Title Warning Messages On Instrument Cluster 40 |SCR Fault Level 1 SCR FAULT SCR FAULT ENG OFF 41 |SCR Fault Level 2 “VALUE” KM SCR FAULT ENG OFF 42 |SCR Fault Level 3 “VALUE” KM SCR FAULT ENG OFF 43 |SCR Fault Level 4 “VALUE” KM SCR FAULT ENG OFF 44 |SCR Fault Level 5 “VALUE” KM SCR FAULT ENG NOT 45 |SCR Fault Level 6 START 46 |SCR Fault Level 7 SCR FAULT ENG STOP 47 |Happy Birthday Happy Birthday BO  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES TELL TALES . This lamp comes on when ignition is switched ‘ON’. Once engine is started, Malfunction it turns ‘OFF’. Indication Lamp Amber It remains ‘ON’ for any engine related fault that may increase emission lev- (MIL) els of the vehicle beyond the regulatory norms. Contact the TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre for rectification. . This lamp comes on when ignition is switched ‘ON’. Once engine is started, ; it turns

. This lamp comes on when ignition is switched ‘ON’. Once engine is started, ; it turns ‘OFF’. heck Engine Amber oto . This lamp comes on continuously if a fault arises in Engine Management P System. Contact the TATAMOTORS authorized service center. . This lamp comes on when the system disables engine start if the original key is not used. Lamp blinks: Vehicle is in immobilized condition when key is not inserted. Immobilizer Red + | Lamp ON: Problem with key/system. Contact a TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Center. Lamp OFF: Normal condition (Authenticated user) and engine will start. Pre-Heat indicator / Amb 1. This lamp comes on when ignition key is in ‘ON’ position. mber Glow Plug indicator (Diesel) Engine shall be started only after this indicator goes ‘OFF’. 83  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Turn Signal Green Indicates direction indicated by the turn signal. Blinks along with buzzer while operating left/right turn indicator only when igni- tion is switched ‘ON’. The direction indicator

operating left/right turn indicator only when igni- tion is switched ‘ON’. The direction indicator arrow on Instrument Cluster flashes along with external indicator lights as selected. Both Tell tales shall blink simultaneously when Hazard switch is pressed irrespective of Ignition ON and the Tick-Tock sound shall be given when any one or both the Tell tales are ON. High Beam Blue This lamp comes on when the high beam headlamps are switched ‘ON’ or flashed. Low Oil Pressure indicator Red 1. This lamp comes on when ignition is switched ‘ON’ and goes ‘OFF’ once required engine oil pressure is developed after starting the engine. 2. If the low oil pressure indicator does not glow or remains ‘ON’ with the ‘IGN’ ‘ON’ and engine is running, it indicates a fault in the electrical circuit / lubrication system. Contact the TATA MOTORS Authorized service center. Battery charging Red EA This lamp comes on when ignition is switched ‘ON’ however it will be switched OFF after pre check of 4sec. If

comes on when ignition is switched ‘ON’ however it will be switched OFF after pre check of 4sec. If it remains ‘ON’ while the engine is running, it indicates that the battery is not getting charged. Switch off all unnecessary electrical equipment and contact the TATA MOTORS Authorized service center. Driver seat belt warning Red Seat belt warning indicator comes ‘ON’ for 4 seconds, when ignition is turned ‘ON’. If seat belt is not fastened and speed is less than 15 Kmph, then seat belt tell- tale will turn ON as initial warning. 84  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES If seat belt is not fastened and vehicle speed goes above 15 Kmph, then final warning will start with telltale flashing and Audio chime for 90 seconds. After 90 seconds, telltale will be ON and Audio chime will be OFF. Note: + Telltale will turn off either when seatbelt is buckled or Reverse gear is en- gaged when it is in initial warning stage. + When it is in final warning with Chime ON, the telltale will be OFF on fas- tening the

stage. + When it is in final warning with Chime ON, the telltale will be OFF on fas- tening the seat belt or engaging the reverse gear. HHC Warning lamp In case of HHC malfunction HHC warning lamp will remain continuously ON. , Amber ‘ Please take your vehicle to nearest TATA authorized service center at the earli- (if available) est This lamp comes on when ignition is switched ‘ON’ and goes ‘OFF’ in approx. Airbag status Red er 4 seconds. If it continuously remains on or blinks then contact the TATA MO- (if available) Pd TORS Authorized service center immediately. This lamp comes on momentarily when ignition is switched ‘ON’. Once parking Park Brake / Brake brake is released, it turns ‘OFF’. If it remains ‘ON’, it indicates Fluid Low / EBD Red 1. Brake fluid level is low. malfunction 2. Park brake is applied & turns ‘OFF’ when it is released. 3. EBD malfunctioning. 85  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES High Coolant Temperature Red Illuminates when ignition is switched ‘ON’ and goes ‘OFF’ in

FEATURES High Coolant Temperature Red Illuminates when ignition is switched ‘ON’ and goes ‘OFF’ in approx. 4 sec- onds. If the engine is overheating, this indicator blinks along with an audible buzzer at this stage Contact the TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre immedi- ately. This symbol blinks along with audible buzzer when engine coolant tem- perature is more than normal. When engine coolant temp increases to hazardous level, Tell tale shall blink with RED color and it is accompanied by audio warning. Note: Never remove the radiator pressure cap from the radiator when the en- gine is hot. Do not restart the engine until the problem has been duly attended. ABS Amber The lamps comes on when ignition is switched ‘ON’ and goes ‘OFF’ in 3 sec- onds. The lamps remains on continuously if there is any malfunction in ABS. Normal braking system will be operational without assistance of ABS. Contact the TATA MOTORS Authorized service center. Low Fuel indicator Amber Illuminates momentarily

Contact the TATA MOTORS Authorized service center. Low Fuel indicator Amber Illuminates momentarily when ignition is switched ‘ON’. The symbol lights up continuously if fuel level in the tank is low. Fuel needs to be filled immediately. IMPORTANT: The telltale warning lamp will start flashing if there is any fault in the fuel system. Contact the TATA MOTORS Authorized service center immedi- ately. 86  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Cruise Control lamp This symbol lights up when the ‘IGN’ is turned ‘ON’ and shall go ‘OFF’ after 4 sec. The Cruise Control is used to indicate the status of cruise control system (if available) Green ‘o the driver. Lamp ON indicates cruise control feature is present and it is acti- vated. Press Clutch Pedal Press Clutch: The lamps comes on ON with IGN ON till user presses the to Start Engine Amber . , clutch pedal to start the engine. (if available) Water in fuel The lamp remains on continuously if excess water is accumulated in the fuel indicator Amber filter.

The lamp remains on continuously if excess water is accumulated in the fuel indicator Amber filter. Contact the TATA MOTORS Authorized service center to drain the water (Diesel) immediately to avoid serious damage to the fuel injection system. Daytime running DRL are used to increase the visibility of the vehicle to other drivers during lamps Green daytime. This lamps comes on (DRL) (if available) when the Day Time Running lamp is ‘ON’. Door Ajar lamp Red All four door and Tail gate are indicated independently when the respective door or tail gate is open. The lamps comes on if Hill Decent Control System is activated. If continuously HDC ON Iam ON then HDC system is at fault condition, (if available) Pp Green Please take your vehicle to nearest TATA authorized service center at the earli- est. 87  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Rear Fog Lamp Brake © (if available) Amber he lamps comes on when the rear fog lamp is ‘ON’. Front Fog Lamp Green The lamps comes on when the front fog lamp is ‘ON’.

the rear fog lamp is ‘ON’. Front Fog Lamp Green The lamps comes on when the front fog lamp is ‘ON’. (if available) Key Not Detected = his lamps comes on when the Valid Smart key is not detected inside the vehi- (if available) Amber =) flee ona] Note: Refer PEPS section more details. The lamps comes on if Hill Decent Control System is activated In case of mal- HDC fault indicator S function in HDC system this indicator will glow. It will remain ON until fault re- ; , Amber | covers. Please take your vehicle to nearest TATA authorized service center at (if available) ! the earliest. Electronic Stability = This lamp will flicker in the event of active ESP or TCS interventions. Program (ESP) Amber If continuously ON then ESP system is at fault condition, Please take your ve- (if available) coo hicle to nearest TATA authorized service center at the earliest. Automatic parkin The Lamp comes ON once APB switch is pulled and APB is engaged along P 9 Red with single chime on instrument

comes ON once APB switch is pulled and APB is engaged along P 9 Red with single chime on instrument cluster. “Park Brake Engaged” text message will also appear in instrument cluster. 88  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Front passenger Seat Belt Indicator Red The Front passenger seatbelt warning indicator turns ON when ignition is turned ON. If front passenger seat is occupied by adult, the warning lamp remains ON as long as the co-driver seatbelt is not fastened. If seatbelt remains unbuckled and vehicle goes above 15 kmph, then final audio warning will go on for 90 seconds. Note: Once the seatbelt is fastened the buzzer and warning lamp turns OFF. Seatbelt reminder remains OFF when reverse gear is engaged. Speed limit warning indicator Amber This lamps comes on when ignition is switched ‘ON’ and goes ‘OFF’ after 4 Seconds. When the vehicle speed cross 80 kmph, then speed limit warning indicator turns ‘ON’ along with audio chime for every 2 minute chime (Audible warning). If vehicle speed

turns ‘ON’ along with audio chime for every 2 minute chime (Audible warning). If vehicle speed crosses 120 kmph, the speed limit warning indicator turns ‘ON’ along with an audio chime (audio warning) continuously, until the vehicle speed is above 120 kmph. If vehicle speed is between 80 kmph and 120 kmph, then the audio chime (audio warning) will become less frequent but the speed limit warning indicator will remain ‘ON’ continuously. When the vehicle speed is reduced below 80kmph, then the speed limit warning indicator and the audio chime (audio warning) will turn off. DPF Lamp Amber The lamp blinks constantly to indicate that the DPF needs to eliminate the trapped pollutants (particulate matter) through the regeneration process, it 89  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES therefore does not indicate a malfunction. The lamp remains off during the en- tire DPF regeneration and it lamp up only when driving conditions require the driver to be notified. To switch off the lamp, keep the car running

driving conditions require the driver to be notified. To switch off the lamp, keep the car running until regener- ation is complete (ideally at 3° gear, 60 kmph. with engine speed over 2000 rpm). The process normally takes about 20 minutes. Note: Failure to obey the correct procedure for long distance when the DPF lamp comes ON can cause the warning lamp (MIL) to come ON. In that case, please contact nearest TATA authorized service center to restore correct DPF opera- tion. ECO ECO lamp ON indicates Economy drive. This mode is used to achieve better , , Green (if available) fuel economy. SPORT SPORT lamp ON indicates Sport drive mode. This mode is used to when more (if available) Amber SPORT torque is required. CITY . CITY lamp ON indicates City drive mode. This mode is used to achieve opti- : , White . (if available) mum torque with fuel economy. This Telltale warns the driver once DEF level is detected to be low. This TT DEF level Amber monitors for emission issues. i=] m nn 90

DEF level is detected to be low. This TT DEF level Amber monitors for emission issues. i=] m nn 90  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES This features monitors the catalyst health & warns the user if there is a mal- SCR Fault Amber H functi —~) unction. TPMS < » age . . (If applicable) Amber ! To give tire low pressure, high pressure & pressure leakage warnings to user. Electric Park Brake In case of malfunction in Electric Park brake this indicator will glow, it will re- : Amber | main ON Until Fault recovers. (If applicable) Automatic Hold Amber AUTO} In case of malfunction in Auto Hold Function this indicator will glow, it will re- Failure HOLO. main ON Until Fault recovers. Automatic Hold Ac- Green This Tell-tale will glow whenever Automatic Hold Function is in Active state. Automatic Hold ON White This Tell-Tale will become ON whenever auto hold function is in On state. 91  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES AUDIO REMINDERS (if available) Key-in Reminder/audio Warning While leaving the vehicle, if you

AUDIO REMINDERS (if available) Key-in Reminder/audio Warning While leaving the vehicle, if you forget the key inside the vehicle in ignition ‘OFF’ po- sition, an audio warning will sound. Re- move key to stop the warning. Park Lamp ‘ON’ Reminder While leaving the vehicle, if you forget to turn ‘OFF’ the headlamps, buzzer will sound. Switch ‘OFF’ lamps to stop the warning sound. Do not forget to turn ‘OFF’ your lamps as it may drain the vehicle bat- tery. Park Brake ‘ON’ Reminder If park brake is applied and vehicle is driven, Telltale lamp will turn ‘ON’ and buzzer will provide audio warning continu- ously. Disengage the park brake to stop audio warning. Reverse Gear Reminder If reverse gear is engaged, the buzzer sound will alert you. Driver Seat Belt Reminder If seatbelt is not fastened and vehicle goes 92 above 15 kmph, then final audio warning will go on for 90 seconds. Seat belt tell-tale lamp will remain continuously ON when audio alarm is active. @NOTE Fasten the seatbelt to

tell-tale lamp will remain continuously ON when audio alarm is active. @NOTE Fasten the seatbelt to stop audio warn- ing. Front Passenger Seat Belt Reminder If front passenger has not fastened seat- belt and if vehicle speed goes above 15 kmph, then final audio warning will go on for 90 seconds. Seat belt tell-tale lamp will remain continuously ON when audio alarm is active. @NOTE Fasten the seatbelt to stop audio warn- ing. ESCL Chime If electronic steering column lock gets in- advertently engaged, this chimes sounds and informs user to rotate steering wheel. Electric Park Brake Chime There are multiple chimes like single tone, Soft cyclic, strong cyclic chime present in this chime. Appropriate chime will sound whenever recommended condition occurs. Drive Mode Chime If you change drive modes from city to eco or eco to sports one time drive mode chime sounds. DEF System Chimes lf DEF Level or DEF Quality or SCR Fault becomes critical low then continuous peri- odic chime will sound. AT

or DEF Quality or SCR Fault becomes critical low then continuous peri- odic chime will sound. AT Chimes + Whenever Driver try to switch off igni- tion while gear lever not in Park posi- tion then single chime will sound to remind driver to move gear level to Park position and then switch off igni- tion.  + Whenever Gear level not in Neutral or Park position & if driver tries to start the vehicle then single chime will sound to remind driver to take gear level in Park or Neutral position and then start the vehicle. TPMS Chime If TPMS alert condition occurs, TPMS chimes shall sound for 4 secs and for TPMS fault conditions TPMS chime shall sound for 20 sec. High Coolant Temperature Reminder Engine Coolant Temperature High Chime feature monitor the Engine coolant tem- perature input and when the temperature is high it gives continuous audio warning. BSVI Chime Whenever DEF Level will be low or SCR fault will occur then one time chime will sound for level 1 and level 2. For level 3 to

low or SCR fault will occur then one time chime will sound for level 1 and level 2. For level 3 to level 7 there will be a continuous chime until fault recovers. COMBI-SWITCH (RH Stalk) 1. Left Turn Signal Move the lever fully upward. 2. Right Turn Signal Move the lever fully downward. When the turn is completed, the signal will cancel and the lever will return to its normal position DASHBOARD AND FEATURES 3. High Beam Move the lever forward to select the high beam function. Pull the lever back to normal for low beam. 4. High Beam Flash (spring return) To flash the high beam, pull the lever to- wards you from the normal position. It will return to its normal position when you re- lease it. 5. Headlamp Rotary Switch OFF Position All lamps will remain ‘OFF’ | > OFF | Parking Lamp Rotate stalk to turn ‘ON’ the Parking lamps. > 200: Day Time Running Lamps (DRL) (if Available) Day time running lamp are used to increase the visibility of the vehicle to others drivers during daytime. 1. To

lamp are used to increase the visibility of the vehicle to others drivers during daytime. 1. To activate and deactivate DRL, keep the ignition switch in ‘ON’ position and switch ON-OFF parking lamp twice 93  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES within approximately three sec. 2. Activation and deactivation of DRL can be done by DRL soft switch which is available on head unit display. Low Beam Rotate stalk to turn ‘ON’ he Low Beam function. Auto Light v Ww QO The headlights will be au- > ‘omatically switched ON depending on ambient light conditions (while entering a tunnel or when it is twi- ight). 6. Lane Change Signal To signal a lane change, move the lever slightly up or down to the point where the urn signal light begins to flash for six imes, but the lever does not latch. The urn signal will flash six times automati- cally. 94 7. Head Lamp Levelling Rotary Switch Inner rotary switch on right hand stalk is provided for head lamp leveling. With the inner rotary switch, Head lamp leveling can be

stalk is provided for head lamp leveling. With the inner rotary switch, Head lamp leveling can be done with head lamp in Low Beam and in ‘ON’ position. Select correct posi- tion before start of trip when the vehicle is stationary. Depending on the number of passengers and luggage in the vehicle headlamp focus may change. This can be adjusted by rotating the knob to one of the 3 level positions.  COMBI-SWITCH (LH STALK) 0. ‘OFF’ Position The wiper is switched ‘OFF’. 1. Intermittent Wipe Push the stalk upwards to oper- ate intermittent wipe. Inner rotary switch on left hand stalk is provided for intermittent front wiper delay. The switch has 5 delay timers. 2. Slow Wipe Push the stalk towards position (2) for con- tinuous slow wipe. 3. Fast Wipe Push the stalk towards position (3) for con- tinuous fast wipe. 4. Flick Wipe (spring return) Pull the stalk downwards and hold it for continuous wipe, the wiper continuously wipes across the wind- shield at low speed till the stalk is re-

wipe, the wiper continuously wipes across the wind- shield at low speed till the stalk is re- leased. 5. Front Windshield Washer + Pull the lever little longer, to spray the washer fluid on the TE windshield. + The windshield wipers operate for 3 cycles after the lever is released and 1 more cycle after 5 seconds. Auto Front Wipe (if available) If your vehicle is fitted with rain and light sensor, the wipers will automatically wipe the windscreen, if it senses rainfall. Make sure that the wiper stalk is in Auto position. DASHBOARD AND FEATURES @ NOTE When you crank the engine, the supply to washer motor is momentarily cut off. 6. Rear Wash And Wipe (if available) Rear Windshield / Wiper And Washer Turn the rotary knob clockwise | | and release to operate rear windshield wash and wipe. The windshield wipers operate for 3 cycles. 95  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Rear Wipe Turn the rotary knob counter | clockwise such that it aligns its positions with arrow mark to operate rear windshield

counter | clockwise such that it aligns its positions with arrow mark to operate rear windshield wiper continuously. @ NOTE Rear wiper will not work as long as tail- gate is open. Rear Windshield / Wiper And Washer Switch Turn the rotary knob counter clockwise such that it aligns its positions with arrow mark and hold it to op- erate rear windshield wash and wipe func- tion. It will return to ‘Rear wipe’ position as soon as it released and continue to wipe. A\ WARNING If you operate wash and wipe function for more than 15 seconds the controller cuts off the supply to the washer motors to avoid overheating. 96 Rain / Light Sensor (if available) Rain & light sensor is integrated sensor & mounted on front windshield glass to sense rain & light. As per the input from sensor, the wipe and light function will work automatically. FASCIA SWITCHES Fascia switches are provided on the cen- ter console below HVAC control panel. Rear fog lamp switch (if available) Front fog lamp switch(if

ter console below HVAC control panel. Rear fog lamp switch (if available) Front fog lamp switch(if available) Hazard warning switch Economy mode switch (if available) aR WN > Sports mode switch (if available)  STEERING WHEEL SWITCHES (LHS) (if available) Volume Press above switch to in- | q- | crease or decrease vol- ume of music system / radio. Seek Forward / Backward Press above switch to change radio channels. Phone Receive / PTT (Push to Talk) Press above switch to accept i incoming call when a cell phone [im _ is connected via Bluetooth. Voice Recognition To start, long press the voice activation button provided on the steering wheel. The system mutes/ pauses the currently played audio and you will hear a beep sound to indicate the activation of the voice recognition feature. The system also display the icon on the top right corner of the screen to indicate activation of voice recognition. @ NOTE The system will start recognizing your voice command only after the beep. So, speak

@ NOTE The system will start recognizing your voice command only after the beep. So, speak your command only after you hear the voice activation beep. DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Source Press above switch to select the required source in the infotain- ment system i.e. USB, AUX, AM, FM and Bluetooth. Mute / Phone Reject Press above switch to reject or hang up a phone call. It is also used to mute the volume of music system / radio. For more information of steering wheel switches refer infotainment manual. ((Refer link - http.//service.tatamotors.com/content/o wners-manual )if available). 97  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES STEERING WHEEL SWITCHES (RHS) (if available) Instrumentation Controls(IC) Instrumentation Controls Scroll Up Press above switch to scroll up on Instrument Cluster display. Instrumentation Controls Scroll Down Press above switch to scroll down on Instrument Cluster display. OK / Select & Long Press for Setting Press above switch to select the option and also press long (ap- 98

Select & Long Press for Setting Press above switch to select the option and also press long (ap- 98 prox. 3) to go directly to Instrument cluster settings. Cruise Resetting/setting Speed In- creasing/decreasing Switch + Press the cruise control mas- ter switch on steering wheel. + Accelerate the vehicle to the desired speed. *« Press the ‘SET’ button on steering wheel switch to set the desired cruise speed. The cruise control indicator on instrument cluster will turn ‘ON’. + Remove your foot from the accelerator pedal. Once Cruise control is activated the vehi- cle automatically maintains the stored speed. Changing the Set Cruise Speed The set cruise speed can be ad- +1Q justed (i.e. increased or de- creased) using ‘+’ (to increase) or ‘~’ (to decrease) switches on steering wheel. The speed increases and decreases ona single press. The changed speed will be shown on the speedometer. Keeping the switch pressed increases or decreases the speed continuously till the switch is re- leased.

the switch pressed increases or decreases the speed continuously till the switch is re- leased. The set speed can also be in- creased by pressing the accelerator pedal till the desired speed is achieved and then pressing the ‘SET’ button. The set speed can also be decreased by pressing the brake pedal (The cruise indicator will turn OFF) and slowing down to desired speed and then pressing the ‘SET’ button (The cruise control indicator will turn ‘ON’ again). Cruise Control Master Switch Cruise speed can be resumed ®) only if cruise control is deacti- vated by depressing Brake Pedal. To re- sume the previously set cruise speed, accelerate the vehicle to a speed above approx. 32 kmph and press reset (‘RES’) switch. Cruise Control Deactivating Switch There are several ways to deac- tivate cruise control: + Applying brake / clutch.  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES * Press deactivation switch on Steering MIC (if available) INFOTAINMENT SYSTEM DISPLAY Wheel. : : — (if available) + Activation of ESP/

MIC (if available) INFOTAINMENT SYSTEM DISPLAY Wheel. : : — (if available) + Activation of ESP/ TCS system. \ Mics are provided on roof near the roo’ amp. L) NOTE For more information, refer infotainment manual. * ((Refer link - https://cars.tatamo- tors.com/service/owners/owners- manual) if available). + For IOP listed phones, Refer refer: https://cars.tatamotors.com/ser- vice/owners/phone-bluetooth-com- patibility-with-car-infotainment-syste m 99  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Reset Infotainment System For your safety and convenience, the sys- ‘em has self-healing process by self-re- booting itself without hampering the driving experience. However, in any rare case, where the sys- em does not self-heal by reboot itself, hen the system can be recovered by per- ‘orming master/force reset. Procedure for Master / force reset 1. Press both the knobs (1 land 2 J) simultaneously for more than 5 sec- onds until system restarts. 2. After System reboots, take the key out. 3. Put key in again and

sec- onds until system restarts. 2. After System reboots, take the key out. 3. Put key in again and Switch ON Igni- tion to turn the system on. 100 @NOTE + It is preferable to do one Ignition OFF to ON cycle after Master/Force reset to synchronize vehicle settings with the TATA Infotainment System. + If the reboot does not work or mas- ter/force resets are required on a weekly or daily basis, vehicle shall be taken to dealership. There, the dealer can update your firmware or inspect the system for hardware problem. + Force/Master reset keeps the stored data, such as call history, text mes- sage information, and previously paired phones as it is. WARNING + The vehicle sound system is capa- ble of delivering loud sounds at higher volume levels. Continued ex- posure to such a higher volume lev- els may affect / damage hearing. Prolonged use of vehicle sound sys- tem at higher volume levels may overheat the electronics in-side. To avoid any permanent damage, a self-protection mechanism

may overheat the electronics in-side. To avoid any permanent damage, a self-protection mechanism within the system reduces the sound out- put until it reaches to the acceptable temperature and then the sound output restores automatically. Use of vehicle sound system at higher volume levels for a long time in Engine OFF condition might drain vehicle battery.  SPEAKERS & TWEETER (if avail- able) Speaker Speakers and tweeters are provided on models with infotainment system. Provi- sions are given for music system and speakers on versions without infotainment system. Tweeter DASHBOARD AND FEATURES USB CHARGER (if available) In Chiller Box 101  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES In 3rd Row Passenger Connect your portable digital music play- ers, pen drives etc. to this socket for play- ing music tracks through the vehicles music system. 102 Smart Charger/usb For Second Row (if available) Smart charger (dual) is available be-tween the front passenger seats below the rear stowage area for second row

(dual) is available be-tween the front passenger seats below the rear stowage area for second row passengers. It is used to charge the mobile phone, Power Bank etc. POWER SOCKET Power socket is available inside the cooled storage box on the center console. The power socket will work when the igni- tion switch is in the “ACC” or “ON” position. This socket can be used to provide 12V (10A) power for electrical accessories.  Use of inappropriate electrical acces- sories can cause damage to your vehi- cle’s electrical system. Make sure that any electrical accessories you use are designed to plug into this type of socket and rating. DASHBOARD AND FEATURES ANTENNA (if available) SHARK FIN ANTENNA (if available) | Antenna is located on the roof. Turn an- J ; ; tenna anticlockwise to remove from vehi- Shark fin antenna is provided on the roof cle, if required. at rear end. 103  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES ROOF GRAB HANDLE (if available) Grab handles are installed on the roof for all seats except

ROOF GRAB HANDLE (if available) Grab handles are installed on the roof for all seats except for the driver’s seat. These help the passengers to position them- selves comfortably during the journey. 104 FRONT FOG LAMPS (if available) Front fog lamp is located on front bumper. When visibility is poor due to fog, snow or rain, use the fog lamps to improve visibility as well as making it easier for other road users to see you. For switching ‘ON’ the Fog lamps, either he Head Lamp or Parking lamp must be ‘ON’. Operate the front fog lamp switch pro- vided on fascia to ‘ON’ or ‘OFF’ the fog lamp. An indicator on the switch will be illumi- nated when the front fog light is ‘ON’. Cornering Feature For front fog lamp cornering feature the Head Lamp must be ‘ON’. As you turn steering wheel to left or right, the corresponding fog lamp will automati- cally get ‘ON’.  REAR FOG LAMPS (if available) Rear Fog Lamp is provided on rear bumper to improved visibil- ity in adverse weather condi- tions to

Fog Lamp is provided on rear bumper to improved visibil- ity in adverse weather condi- tions to vehicles behind you. For switching ‘ON’ the rear fog lamps, fron fog lamp must be ‘ON’. Operate the rear fog lamp switch provided on fascia to ‘ON’ or ‘OFF’ the fog lamp. An indicator on the switch will be illumi- nated when the rear fog light is ‘ON’. PUDDLE / AJAR LAMP Puddle / Ajar Lamp is provided on driver, front passenger & rear doors trim. It will be ON only when particular door is in open condition. DASHBOARD AND FEATURES ROOF LAMP Interior roof lighting lamp is provided on the roof with inbuilt switch. Front Roof Lamp Option 1 1. Spot / Reading Lamp for Front passen- ger side OFF DOOR ON Spot / Reading Lamp for Driver side a Pon 105  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Option 2 106 Rear Roof Lamp (if available) The switches has below functions: Spot / Reading Lamp For Front Passen- ger Side The front row interior lamp has 7 | separate switches to operate the spot / reading lamp for Front

The front row interior lamp has 7 | separate switches to operate the spot / reading lamp for Front passenger side. OFF In this position, the lamp will re- main ‘OFF’. DOOR In this position, the lamp turns ‘ON’ with dimming when either of the doors are opened. When the last door is closed, the lamp will turn ‘OFF’ with dim- ming. This helps settling in the seat and in- serting the key in the ignition switch. When the key is turned to the ‘IGN’ position, the lamp goes ‘OFF’ immediately. ON The lamp will turn ‘ON’ as long RyRy as the switch is in this position. amt Spot / Reading Lamp for Driver Side The front row interior lamp has [egg separate switches to operate the Ww spot / reading lamp for Driver side.  Side Reading Lamps (if available) I Side reading lamps (applicable for variants with Sunroof) are provided above second row seat passenger doors. The lamps will operate independently & without any connectivity with door. Inbuilt switches are also provided on both lamps to operate

& without any connectivity with door. Inbuilt switches are also provided on both lamps to operate manually (Switch ‘ON’ or ‘OFF’) the lamps when required. DASHBOARD AND FEATURES BOOT LAMP SIDE INDICATOR LAMP ON ORVM Boot lamp is available in the rear luggage __ It is provided on outer part of ORVM. compartment to light up the luggage area. {twill turn ON when the turn signal indica- Boot lamp is without switch type. It willbe — tor switch is ON and Hazard Warning indi- ON only when tailgate is open. cator switch is ON. 107  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES FRONT LAMP sidered normal and will be eliminated by 1. Position / DRL /Turn indicator lamp (if available) 2. High beam lamp 3. Front fog lamp (if available) 4. Low beam lamp Lamp Condensation / Fogging Con- dition Condensation is a natural phenomenon in Lamp. This occurs mainly because of at- mospheric condition/weather change. Dur- ing normal condensation, thin film of mist is visible on the inside surface of the exte- rior lens. Generally,

condensation, thin film of mist is visible on the inside surface of the exte- rior lens. Generally, this condition is con- 108 turning on the respective lamp with engine running or during normal driving condi- tions. By doing this if the condensation has began to clear after the drying time it indi- cates that the lamp sealing has NOT been breached and will eventually clear. The lamp must NOT be replaced. NOTE + All Exterior lamp fogging / conden- Sation is natural occurrence and re- spective lamp assembly replacement will not necessary to resolve the issue. + High-pressure washer jet direct on vent system of lamp are not recom- mended, there might be possibility of water ingress causing for heavy fogging. + Presence of condensation / mist in non-functional area is normal and acceptable, no action is recom- mended. TAIL LAMP Turn indicator Reverse lamp Parking lamp Stop lamp 1. 2. 3. 4.  AMBIENT LIGHTS (if available) Ambient Light function Interior ambient lighting comforts user by

4.  AMBIENT LIGHTS (if available) Ambient Light function Interior ambient lighting comforts user by illuminating the vehicle interiors at defined locations. Single colored LEDs are fixed at various locations of the vehicle interiors. Turning Ambient lighting on and off: + Ambient Lights turn on in Blue color whenever parking light is turned to ON. + Ambient Lights turn off whenever park- ing light is turned to OFF. Ambient Lights (Entry/Exit): + Ambient Lights turn on in Blue color whenever roof lamp made active by re- moving the ignition key from key slot and opening any door. * Once the opened door is closed, the Ambient lights dims off after approxi- mately 25 seconds. + If door is left open, ambient lights will turn OFF after set battery saver time. iRA (iNTELLIGENT REAL-TIME ASSIST) Connected Car Service Car is equipped with iRA - Connected car Technology which offers a host of features to the users through the “iRA - Connected car” Mobile Application (APP). The Vehicle is

of features to the users through the “iRA - Connected car” Mobile Application (APP). The Vehicle is equipped with an Electronic Control unit which monitors & records the data from various vehicle systems like Engine, Transmission, Brake, Battery & other elec- trical systems. This data is then processed & used for providing the connected Car features (For details & list of features, please refer the connected car brochure provided to you along with this manual). (Refer the app tour section of the mobile app.) The Connected Car module records the following information: Vehicle Telematics This includes the periodic transmission of data from other vehicle ECUs & Electronic systems like EMS, ABS, Air Bag, BMS, BCM etc. along with the geographi- cal location of the vehicle. DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Vehicle driving behavior This includes the location, speed, acceler- ation, trip details, charging etc. Event based recording This includes data generated during spe- cific events like vehicle

etc. Event based recording This includes data generated during spe- cific events like vehicle collision, intrusion, un-authorized entry etc. The Data collected through Connected Car module is used by TATA MOTORS PASSENGER VEHICLE LIMITED for various purposes, including, but not limited to, Providing Connected Car features through Mobile APP. + Evaluation of Vehicle performance. + Research & improvement of current & future vehicle designs. + Troubleshooting & diagnostics of the vehicle. TATA MOTORS does not disclose the data recorded from your vehicle to any third party except: + After obtaining a written consent from the Car Owner. + Upon request from Law enforcing 109  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES agencies and regulatory bodies. + Used for research purpose without the Personal _ Verifiable information (anonymized). + Used as defence of TATA MOTORS in a Lawsuit. 110 WIRELESS POWER CHARGING (if applicable) WPC System Description Wireless Power Charging (WPC) is a con-venience feature to

(if applicable) WPC System Description Wireless Power Charging (WPC) is a con-venience feature to charge the smart mo-bile phone using wireless charging technology, without a need to plugin wire in the device. The WPC system is powered with vehicle battery and the wireless power charging function is enabled with Ignition @NOTE The WPC would support only those smart phones which are Qi compatible. Please refer the Owner’s manual of smart phone /phone setting to check weather support to Qi function. Location Of Wireless Charger Location: The location of the WPC in ve- hicle is in the Centre console area as below. Function Of Each Component Of WPC ¢ Wireless Power Charging (WPC) ECU: Generates power up to 15W and transfer power through wireless media by magnetic induction. ¢ Anti-skid Mat: Hold the position of smart phone placed on it against any jerk and acts a charging contact sur- face for the smart phone. ¢ Infotainment unit: It is a unit which displays the status of wireless power

for the smart phone. ¢ Infotainment unit: It is a unit which displays the status of wireless power charger with Status symbol and text display. Wireless charger status dis-  played on infotainment in text and symbol form. Functions Of WPC System A. Charging function: Charge smart phone Following all the conditions are applicable to function correctly * Ignition ON (Engine OFF) + Engine ON * Smart phone placed in correct orienta- tion on the antiskid mat as below Figure1: Phone Placement Area WPC system detects the presence of phone and starts charging as per the Qi standard protocol. The charging status is updated and displayed on the Infotainment unit. B. Charging Status display function: Displays the real time status of WPC sys- tem. Following all the various conditions that are detected by WPC system and dis- played on infotainment Unit. 1. WPC system in standby mode 2. Smart phone charging ON 3. Foreign object on the antiskid mat 4 . Smart phone battery is full/Charging completed

ON 3. Foreign object on the antiskid mat 4 . Smart phone battery is full/Charging completed Conditions To Charge Phone Effec- tively / Properly 1. Keep the charging pad area / surface clear of any objects (coins, credit cards, smart cards, keys etc.) 2. Place the smart phone on the marked area as shown - for best results place the smart phone at the center of the charging pad / mat. DASHBOARD AND FEATURES 3. Do not use thicker phone cover or cover with metal parts to avoid charg- ing interruption. 4. Ensure that phone is placed with dis- played facing upwards and back cover is touching the pad surface. 5. Turn ON the ignition to start the charg- ing. INFORMATION + The wireless charging function is sup- ported to charge smart phones which are Qi compatible. Certain features may not function as not supported by the smart phone manufacturer and not a malfunction of the wireless charging. + Wireless charging stops with Ignition OFF. + Wireless charging stops when the smart phone is not

+ Wireless charging stops with Ignition OFF. + Wireless charging stops when the smart phone is not completely in touch with the charging pad surface or not positioned correctly on charging pad. 111  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Do’s And Don’t A\ WARNING 1. 2. 1. If any metallic object such as coin/keys are located between wireless charging pad and phone back cover, the charging may get disrupted. Also, this may results in heat up of metallic objects. 112 Dos: Please ensure that the phone is com- patible to the charging standard “Qi’. If there is any metallic object between smartphone and wireless charger pad, immediately remove smart phone and metallic object after it has completely cooled down. Once any metallic object is detected on wireless charger post charging it displays its warning mes- sage on Infotainment unit, first remove smart phone then remove foreign ob- ject from the charging pad and place the smart phone again on charging pad. In case of water/Liquid spillage on charging

pad and place the smart phone again on charging pad. In case of water/Liquid spillage on charging pad, dry out the pad surface area properly & clean the ECU surface area by removing Anti-skid mat. Do not charge the smart phone until surface is completely dry. The Phone charging status is informa- tion by phone and not charger. Wireless charger works on principle of magnetic induction, i.e. it converts electrical energy into magnetic energy o transfer energy from charging pad to phone. Please maintain safe distance rom the charger most of the time as it may cause irritation to sensory organs or active implants if implemented in the body. Please consult medical specialist in case implant organ in the body of he user. 6. Place the smart phone on the center of he charging pad for effective charging with best results (refer Figure 1). 7. It is recommended to turn on Engine while charging phone on wireless charger to avoid vehicle battery drain. 8. User shall clean charging pad/mat pe-

phone on wireless charger to avoid vehicle battery drain. 8. User shall clean charging pad/mat pe- riodically to avoid dust accumulation. 9. It is recommended to keep Vehicle AC at least 23 Deg Cel with Fan speed above 2 level as cool environment sup- port efficient charging of the phone. 10. It is recommended to keep mobile phone at center of charging pad for ef- fective charging. In case small phone kept at corner do not start charging or Foreign object detection message pop-up, please move phone to center  of pad. 11.Always use TATA MOTORS PASSENGER VEHICLE LIMITED approved charging pad for efficient charging. Don'ts: 1. Do not use metallic smart phone cov- ers as it would halt the wireless charg- ing function. The wireless charging may not function properly when there is a heavy & thick (more than 1 mm thick) accessory cover on the smart phone. 2. Do not place smart phone up-side down (screen face) on charging pad or do not misalign mobile phone on charging pad in such case

down (screen face) on charging pad or do not misalign mobile phone on charging pad in such case smartphone will not charge. 3. During phone charging, the wireless charger and phone may become warm. In this case, charging will stop due to phone's internal protection func- tion. Charging may resume after phone cools down. 4. Please do not put any liquid (e.g. water, cold drink, and sanitizer), dust particles or flammable object on anti- skid mat. 5. Do not cover the wireless charger with a cloth or other object while charging. It may heat up the device and reduce the charging efficiency. 6. Donot disassemble, modify or remove the wireless charger. Also do not apply force or impact to the wireless charger. Information 1. Small noise may be heard when a smart phone which does not support wireless charging or any foreign object is placed on the charging pad. This small sound is due to the vehicle dis- cerning compatibility of the object placed on the charging pad. It does not affect the

vehicle dis- cerning compatibility of the object placed on the charging pad. It does not affect the vehicle performance or the smartphone in any way. 2. For certain cellular phones with their own protection, the wireless charging speed may decrease and the wireless changing may stop. 3. When the interior temperature of the wireless charger rises above a set temperature, the wireless charging will cease / stop to charging function. After DASHBOARD AND FEATURES the interior temperature drops below set threshold, the wireless charging function will resume. . Wireless charging will stop when the vehicle is Ignition OFF. . Wireless charging will stop when the smartphone is not in complete contact with the wireless charging pad. . When charging certain smart phones, the charging full message on head unit may not display when the smart phone is fully charged. It depends on smart phone manufacturer characteristics/ configurations. . Smartphone of some manufacturers may display messages on

characteristics/ configurations. . Smartphone of some manufacturers may display messages on weak cur- rent. This is due to particular charac- teristic of smartphone and does not imply a malfunction on wireless charger. . Smaller smartphone users (ex. IPhone 8) may face intermittent charging is- sues due to its smaller size. (To avoid this, place the smartphone at center of the charging pad). Small mobile phones may not be able to charge in 113  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES 10. 11. 12. 13. any/ every position as kept on charging pad. The wireless charger may not operate correctly when the vehicle is near a TV tower, electric power plant, gas station, large display, airport, or other facility that generates strong magnetic field radio waves or electrical disturbance / noise. lf FOD is message pop-up then after lifting the phone FOD message may disappear or remains till metal object is also removed. This depend of wire- less charging support feature of smart phone. When “Place phone properly

This depend of wire- less charging support feature of smart phone. When “Place phone properly or Re- move metallic object if any on charging pad” then, realign phone at the center. When “Place phone properly Or Re- move metallic object if any on charging pad” and phone not charging even after sliding at center then, lift the phone and place it again on charging pad. Some phones have internal calibration because of which it may take 6-10 sec 114 to initiate charging. 14. If phone, having internal calibration, is placed along with metallic object and then, phone is removed from charging pad then, FOD error message remains on charging pad till metallic object is removed from charging pad. WPC ECU In Standby Mode The infotainment system displays no warning message/ indication in this mode. This mode represents that the charging function is halted and not functional. The charging function could halt because of below reasons like: 1. Phone is not properly aligned with the charging pad or

could halt because of below reasons like: 1. Phone is not properly aligned with the charging pad or not positioned cor- rectly on wireless charger pad in standby mode Phone is kept in upside down (screen face) position wireless charger in standby mode Phone is fully charged, and phone does not demand power wireless charger in standby mode Kaby’s Pha. Hep Voice Command Apple CarPlay Stand by Mode on Display Smart Phone Charging ON Mode When the smart phone is placed correctly and the conditions are favorable to per- form the function of wireless charging, the infotainment system shows following mes- sages. After Popup (refer below image), The charging symbol stays ON until the phone is fully charged. Charging Mode On - Popup  Charging Mode On — All Time Display Foreign Object Detection Mode The charging gets interrupted/stopped due to metal object placed on the charging pad. The infotainment head unit displays following message. Check if there are any foreign objects between the smart

head unit displays following message. Check if there are any foreign objects between the smart phone and the charging pad, please clean if so. Smartphone shall be lifted for removing foreign objects and place it back on charg- ing pad. Foreign Objects DASHBOARD AND FEATURES + Delay in restarting of mobile charg- ing will be observed if foreign ob- jects are removed without lifting smartphone. + After removing the foreign objects, if smart phone do not resume charg- ing immediately lift the phone and place on charging pad to start the charging. + Incase of Foreign objects detection on charging Pad; Lift the phone & remove the foreign object. Place the smart phone again on charging Pad to restart the charging. 115  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES AQl4 Home Wireless Charging xK 03:09 PM Place phone properly and remove metallic ‘object if any on charging pad Phone Auido Setup Voice Command Settings Foreign Object Detected - Popup nan Home 03:37 PM ot au} BT Audio Contacts en) Sound Damo Themes

Foreign Object Detected - Popup nan Home 03:37 PM ot au} BT Audio Contacts en) Sound Damo Themes Wnat3Words Foreign Object Detection Mode- All time Display % & Cabin At 116 Smart Phone Battery Is Full/ Charg- ing Completed The smart phone fully charged status is in- dicated on the infotainment display screen with following message. This Indication depends on phone profile whether it com- municate the battery full charge status to WPC System. Charging Complete Indication - Popup @NOTE When charging certain smart phones, the charging full message on head unit may not display when the cell phone is fully charged. It depends on smart phone manufacturer characteristics/ configurations. WPC System Error Mode The error in the WPC with fan system may cause the error message to get displayed on the infotainment screen. Some of errors that can occur while charg- ing which halt/interrupt charging can be covered with this indication are: + WPC fan internal fault which lead to permanent failure in

be covered with this indication are: + WPC fan internal fault which lead to permanent failure in charger function- ality + WPC Fan stuck/jam is detected + WPC fan Charging coil failure/damage + WPC_ fan temperature failure/damage sensor System Error Mode - Pop up  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES @ NOTE If error message is pop up on head unit then stop/ avoid charging the smart phone and visit the nearby service sta- tion. 117  118  STORAGE COMPARTMENT Glove Box Glove Box Illumination Opening and Closing The glove box lamp illuminates when the glove box is opened. @ NOTE To Open- Pull the lever to open the glove box flap. To Close - Lift glove box flap until it en- gages. Make sure that glove box flap is closed while driving. STOWAGE AREAS Stowage Detail Following items can be stowed in glove box. 1. Owner’s manual and other vehicle document, 2. First aid kit, Visiting card, Pen, Re- ceipts etc. 119  STOWAGE AREAS Cooling Facility (if available) Google Holder (if available) Utility Pockets on

119  STOWAGE AREAS Cooling Facility (if available) Google Holder (if available) Utility Pockets on Front Doors On selected models cooling facility is pro- Goggle holder is provided near the roof _ Utility pockets are provided on front doors vided below driver foldable arm rest. It lamp. and it can be used to keep following items. cools only when the A/C is ON. Close the 1. Magazine/ paper vent by rotating the knob, whenever cool- 2. Umbrella holder ing is not ired. ing Is not require 3. Water bottle Remove the water from umbrella and fold it properly before storing it in um- brella holder. 120  STOWAGE AREAS Utility Pockets on Rear Doors Utility Pockets on 3 Row Mobile / Wallet Stowage Utility pockets are provided on rear doors Utility pockets are provided on 3” row. It Place for keeping wallet / mobile is pro- and it can be used to keep following items. —_ can be used to keep following items. vided in front of Gear shifter lever. 1. Mobile holder 1. Mobile holder, Magazines/books 2.

items. vided in front of Gear shifter lever. 1. Mobile holder 1. Mobile holder, Magazines/books 2. Magazines/books 2. Water bottles etc. 3. Water bottles etc. 121  STOWAGE AREAS Cup Holder for Front Passenger Space for cup holder are provided in cen- ter console. 122 Stowage for Rear Passenger (if avail- able) Stowage for rear passenger is provided on rear side of floor console between the front passenger seats. It can be used to keep mobile charger, mobile and small items like wallet, Power bank etc. Stowage Below Arm Rest Stowage below front arm rest with chiller is provided on center console between the ront passenger seats. It can be used to keep small items.  Foldable Arm Rest (if available) A foldable arm rest has been provided in the rear seat. It also has two cup holders, which can be accessed by opening the cover. When not required, fold the arm- rest back into the seat. @ NOTE + Remove all items and cups before folding the cup holders. + Use cups, containers, bottles of

NOTE + Remove all items and cups before folding the cup holders. + Use cups, containers, bottles of right size and which have lids. The content could otherwise spill. Tailgate Compartment Store the luggage in tailgate compartment. You can keep suitcase bag etc. Luggage cover is designed only for hiding the luggage compartment. WARNING . STOWAGE AREAS Distribute the items of luggage as evenly as possible. Position heavy loads as far forwards as possible and as low down in the trunk as possible. Never allow occupants to travel in the luggage compartment. Do not place anything on luggage cover as it could obstruct driver’s rear view. Also in case of an acci- dent or sudden braking, it could cause an injury to occupants. The luggage cover can be lifted. 123  STOWAGE AREAS Stowage Below Load Floor Hooks-coat Hanger (if available) Front Seat Back Pockets (if available) Store the suitable luggage below the load Coat hanger is provided for rear passen- _ Rear pockets are provided behind the

below the load Coat hanger is provided for rear passen- _ Rear pockets are provided behind the front floor in tailgate compartment. It can be — ger near grab handle. seats for keeping small magazines /Note- i book etc. used to keep small items. WARNING * The coat hook cannot restrain heavy objects or items. + Do not hang objects on coat hooks which can obstruct the curtain airbag deployment during impact. + Never hang hard, sharp-edged or fragile objects on the coat hook. 124  CLIMATE CONTROL AIR DISTRIBUTION The Climate Control regulates the temperature inside the vehicle and filter the dust particles in cabin based on the user set temperature settings. The air is distributed through the vents in the passenger compartment as shown below: 125  CLIMATE CONTROL AIR VENTS Centre Vent Centre air vents are provided on dash- board. Air flow and its direction can be ad- justed with the help of knob provided on respective vent. Centre Air Vents (Front) 126 Side Air Vents (Front) Side Vent For

knob provided on respective vent. Centre Air Vents (Front) 126 Side Air Vents (Front) Side Vent For Rear Passenger (if available) For Second Row Passenger Side air vents are provided on both side of B pillar for rear passenger. Air flow and its direction can be adjusted with the help of knob provided on respec- tive vent. Side Air Vents (Rear on B pillar)  For Third Row Passenger Side air vents are provided on both side of C pillar for rear passenger. Air flow and its direction can be adjusted with the help of knob provided on respec- tive vent. HVAC CONTROLS (if available) A. Temperature Control B. Fresh / Recirculation air mode C. Blower Speed Control D. AC ON/OFF Switch E. Air Distribution Control Temperature Control CLIMATE CONTROL The temperature control knob allows you to adjust the temperature. The tempera- ture can be increased by rotating the knob towards the red segment (clockwise) and decreased by rotating it towards the blue segment (anti-clockwise). 127  CLIMATE CONTROL

and decreased by rotating it towards the blue segment (anti-clockwise). 127  CLIMATE CONTROL Fresh / Recirculation Air Mode Fresh Air Mode Press the switch to activate / deactivate air (Indicator light ‘OF F’) recirculation mode. Fresh air is drawn into the vehicle. Press to ‘ON’ or ‘OFF’ Recirculation Mode (Indicator light ‘ON’) Air in the passenger compartment recircu- lates. No fresh air enters the compartment. Always use when: + Driving on a dusty road or through tun- nel. * Onsignals or slow traffic to avoid traffic pollution. * Maximum cooling is required. 128 Always use when: Discomfort is felt or windows are fog- ging up. Using of or Gy air flow modes dur- ing demist / defrost. Using normal heating mode. Blower Speed Control OFF HIGH This is to turn ‘ON’ the blower and select desired blower speed.  AC ON/OFF Press the switch to activate / deactivate the AC. The indicator lamp in the button will light up when climate control is acti- vated. @ NOTE The AC can be switched ‘ON’

in the button will light up when climate control is acti- vated. @ NOTE The AC can be switched ‘ON’ only if the blower is ‘ON’ and engine is running. When AC is switched ‘ON’, engine idling RPM increases marginally to adjust the AC compressor load. When desired temperature at evaporator is achieved Ac compressor will self dis- place optimum refrigerant flow. @ NOTE * Condensation may drip from the un- derside of the vehicle when it is in cooling mode. Traces of water on the ground are normal and are not a sign of leakage or malfunction. + Ventilate the vehicle for a brief pe- riod during warm weather. This will speed up the cooling process and the desired vehicle interior temper- ature will be reached quickly. + Never cover the air vents or air in- take grilles in the vehicle interior. + If the AC is not used for a long pe- riod, such as during winter, it may not give the best performance when you Start using it again. Operate the AC at least once a month to main- tain optimum

when you Start using it again. Operate the AC at least once a month to main- tain optimum performance. + While starting the vehicle itself after long duration (more than 15 days), following procedure needs to be fol- lowed to meet AC performance. CLIMATE CONTROL + Start the vehicle with AC & Blower in OFF condition in idling for 2~3 minutes. + Then switch ON the AC & Blower and run it for another 2~3 minutes in idling for proper circulation of refrigerant & oil to lubricate the internal parts of AC system. + Rear blower will be effective after 5- 10 min of front HVAC running (after cabin cooling). Air Distribution Control This is to select the air distribution pattern as described in the table. 129  CLIMATE CONTROL o> 3 {Direc ts air through he center rt and side air vents © @ |Directs air through the cen- vu rl er, side and foot well vents ® |Directs air through the foot v rol well air vents . Directs air through the de- te roster & foot well vents (De- ‘ault fresh air mode) Directs

vents . Directs air through the de- te roster & foot well vents (De- ‘ault fresh air mode) Directs air through the de- Gy roster vents (Default fresh air mode) -- Directs fresh air enters in the cS compartment 130  CLIMATE CONTROL Functions and Settings Recommended basic settings of the control elements of air conditioning system for the respective operating modes. These may vary depending on individual requirements and weather conditions. Fresh / Recirculation air Air Flow Direction Blower Speed Air Temperature mode AC ON/OFF renee (@) ‘ @. Q =] © . Ge ? F . . Normal heating ipl or up 2nd or 3rd Desired temp Fresh air mode Switched OFF To MAX speed . Briefly switch ON to Quick heating cna and then 2nd or To the extreme right Fresh air mode then Re- | Switched OFF v up to the stop . j 3rd circulation mode Normal Cooling ep 1st to 3rd Desired tempera- Recirculation mode Switched ON ture ° To Max speed To the extreme left Quick Cooling a] and then 2nd or up to the stop Recirculation

° To Max speed To the extreme left Quick Cooling a] and then 2nd or up to the stop Recirculation mode Switched ON 3rd Demisting 2nd or 3rd Desired Fresh air mode (Default) Swi ched ON (Op- temperature tional) Defrosting Gy To MAX speed poses tempera | Fresh air mode (Default) tonal) ON (Op- 131  CLIMATE CONTROL FULLY AUTOMATIC TEMPERA- TURE CONTROL (FATC) (if avail- able) FATC system controls the inside tempera- ture of the vehicle automatically and pro- vides maximum passenger convenience regardless of outside weather conditions. Rear window demister switch Maximum defrost switch Air distribution (mode) switch Blower speed control down switch 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 132 Blower speed control up switch Temperature control knob Auto ‘ON’ selection switch SND Fresh air / recirculation switch 9. AC compressor ‘ON / OFF’ switch 10. OFF mode switch Display Unit FATC display is shown on infotainment display screen. FATC functions can be controlled using both the FATC control panel and the touch

display screen. FATC functions can be controlled using both the FATC control panel and the touch screen display. Whenever the user presses any switch or urns the rotary knob, then the display unit will show the relevant Climate Information. Also, when the display is not in climate mode then climate information will be dis- played on the all-time display provide on he bottom bar. FATC Control Rear Window Demister Switch This switch operates rear win- dow demister. The system will be deactivated after 15 min of continuous operation. Maximum Defrost Switch 1. This switch directs the main airflow towards windscreen for faster defrosting. (It also overrides any mode selection you may have made). 2. When you turn off the button, the sys- tem returns to its default setting. For your safety make sure you have a clear view through all the windows be- fore driving. Air Distribution (Mode) Switch In AUTO mode, the FATC sys- i'r tem will regulate the mode auto- Spd matically. However, user

In AUTO mode, the FATC sys- i'r tem will regulate the mode auto- Spd matically. However, user override is possible with the use of MODE  button to select the desired airflow mode. Each time you press the MODE button, he display shows the mode selected. of Directs air through the center and side air vents > @ |Directs air through the center, ub ri side and foot well vents @ |Directs air through the foot up well air vents . Directs air through the de- vi] roster & foot well vents (De- ‘ault fresh air mode) Directs air through the de- roster vents (Default fresh air mode) HP Blower Speed Control Down Switch (Low) Press the Blower Speed control down button to decrease the blower speed. Blower Speed Control Up Switch (High) Press the Blower Speed control up button to increase the blower speed. @ NOTE In ‘AUTO’ mode, the FATC system will regulate the blower speed automati- cally. CLIMATE CONTROL Temperature Control Knob Turning the temperature control knob clockwise increases the

CONTROL Temperature Control Knob Turning the temperature control knob clockwise increases the temperature of the air. The desired temperature will be in- creased by steps of 0.5°C. User can select temperature range from 18°C to 30°C. Whereas the anti-clockwise direction de- creases the temperature. When you set the temperature to its lower limit (Lo) or its upper limit (Hi), the system runs at full cooling or heating only. It does- n't regulate the interior temperature. 133  CLIMATE CONTROL Auto ON Selection Switch Ke To put the automatic climate control in fully automatic mode: 1. Press the ‘AUTO’ button. 2. Set the desired temperature by turning temperature control knob. The display will show all the functions during ‘AUTO’ mode. 3. The system automatically selects the proper mix of conditioned and / or heated air that will, as quickly as pos- sible, raise or lower the interior temper- ature to your preference. 4. When you set the temperature to its lower limit (Lo) or its upper

ature to your preference. 4. When you set the temperature to its lower limit (Lo) or its upper limit (Hi), the system runs at full cooling or heat- ing only. It does not regulate the inte- rior temperature. 134 Semi-automatic Operation You can manually select various functions of the climate control system when it is in fully automatic mode. All other features re- main automatically controlled. Making any manual selection causes the word ‘AUTO’ in the display to go OFF and overridden setting is displayed. System will remain in semiautomatic mode till ‘AUTO’ is re- pressed. Fresh Air / Recirculation Switch 1. When the _ recirculation switch or LED is switched (=<) ‘ON’, air from the vehicle’s interior is sent throughout the system. 2. When the recirculation switch is switched ‘OFF’, air is brought in from outside of the vehicle (fresh mode). Whenever discomfort is felt, switch to fresh air mode. @ NOTE The outside air intakes for the climate control systems are at the base of wind-

air mode. @ NOTE The outside air intakes for the climate control systems are at the base of wind- screen. Keep this area clear from leaves and other debris. The system should be used with recircula- tion air mode for faster heat up and cool down, however keeping the system in re- circulation mode, particularly with AC OFF, can cause the windows fog up.  When Reverse gear is selected, air in- take may switch to recirculation mode if previously in fresh mode to prevent ex- haust fumes from entering in the vehi- cle. AC ON/OFF Button Press the AC compressor ON/OFF button to turn the air [gua conditioning ON or OFF. The AC icon will be activated on the display when the AC will be ON. OFF Switch Press the OFF button to switch OFF the system. OFF will be displayed on the infotainment screen. A\ WARNING Do not set climate control features while driving. CLIMATE CONTROL 135  CLIMATE CONTROL Functions and Settings Rear Maximum | Air Distri- | Blower Fresh/air Temperature Auto f . Blower Up |

and Settings Rear Maximum | Air Distri- | Blower Fresh/air Temperature Auto f . Blower Up | Recircula-| A/C OFF demister | Defrost bution Down ti Button “OC Cant eaea &« fia 7 7 »>e Normal Desired No No Desired Desired No No heating Temperature | Change | Change No Change | No Change Speed Speed Change | Change OFF . To the ex- Quick treme right till] OFF No OFF Pl NA |Maxspeed| Fresh ON | OFF heating “up Change v temp ‘HI Normal Desired No No Desired Desired No No Cooling Temperature | Change | Change No Change | No Change Speed Speed Change | Change OFF Quick To the ex- No c > Recircula- Cooling treme left till OFF Change OFF rf NA Max Speed tion ON OFF temp ‘LO’ To the right wg up to the de- No No No No No Demisting sired temper- | Change ON No Change | No Change Change No Change Change _ | Change | Change ature 136  CLIMATE CONTROL Control Knob Position Button Position To the right No Defrosting | up to the de- OFF ON ay NA Max Speed} Fresh ON OFF . change sired temper- ature No

No Defrosting | up to the de- OFF ON ay NA Max Speed} Fresh ON OFF . change sired temper- ature No No Panel OFF OFF OFF OFF OFF OFF OFF OFF ON change Change 137  CLIMATE CONTROL Quick Cooling If your vehicle is parked under the sun, you can cool it down fast by following the steps given below: 1. 2. Start the engine. Turn on A/C by pressing the button. Make sure the temperature control is set to maximum cool. In case of FATC set temperature to ‘Low’ mode. Set the blower to maximum speed. Open windows half, set air direction to- wards face and fresh air mode. When the interior has cooled down to a more comfortable level, close win- dows and set the controls as required in normal cooling, with re-circulation mode ON. 138 FATC Sensors HVAC system is fitted with three sensors. Solar Sensor A solar sensor is on top of the dashboard at the middle of defroster grill. Outside Ambient Temperature (OAT) Sensor It is located under the front bumper grill. + Do not cover or spill any liquid on

(OAT) Sensor It is located under the front bumper grill. + Do not cover or spill any liquid on sensors. + Donot cover sensor, this may cause the sensor to malfunction. This may lead to FATC not functioning to de- sired level. In-car Sensor on Control Panel  CLIMATE CONTROL CABIN AIR PURIFICATION The Climate Control System fitted with ad- vance filter for cabin air purification. * Pollen Filter (If available) : The filter takes care of dust particles and other pollutants. + PM2.5 Combi filter (If available) : This high efficiency filter cleans the PM2.5 micron particles and harmful gases coming from atmosphere pollution and volatile organic compounds Rear Blower Rear Blower switch @ NOTE Rear blower is available on third row trim + Replace the Filter as per Mainte- (side wall). It can be switched ‘ON’ pro- nance schedule. More frequent filter vided that front AC is switched ‘ON’. replacement are required/ recom- F 5 . - mended in case of vehicle is driven posn be switched "ON/OFF" by

are required/ recom- F 5 . - mended in case of vehicle is driven posn be switched "ON/OFF" by rotating in heavy dusty conditions. If the ve- hicle is driven in heavy dusty condi- tions more frequent filter replacement are required. Replace the filter if you find poor ventilation, Cooling or Demisting and poor Air Quality Index (AQI). 139  CLIMATE CONTROL Air Quality Index : (If available) Climate control system fitted with FATC calculates Air Quality Index (AQI) of cabin using PM2.5 AQI Index. FATC System in AUTO Mode automat- ically sets the blower speed and switches to recirculation air mode to improve AQI inside the cabin. The calculated AQI is displayed on dis- play unit along with severity index. + Ifthe AQI does not improve in some time get the sensor and Cabin filter inspected. PM2.5 Dust Sensor : (If available) It is fitted in side the dashboard near to the brake pedal. NOTE NOTE AQI calculation will be effective after 30 seconds after ignition ON and no value will be

NOTE NOTE AQI calculation will be effective after 30 seconds after ignition ON and no value will be displayed during this period. 140 + Vacuum the dust sensor as per the maintenance schedule and no note for cabin filter cleaning or replace- ment.  PRE DRIVING CHECKS Make Sure That + Windshield, windows, mirrors, lights, and reflectors are clean and unob- structed. * Tools kit, jack & handle, warning trian- gle, owner’s manual, first aid kit and vehicle documents are available and stored at their locations. AX WARNING Never put any mat on top of the floor carpet near pedal region. + All doors, engine bonnet and tail gate are securely closed and latched. + All passengers are properly restrained. All occupants travelling should always wear Seat belts or suitable CRS as ap- plicable. * Objects/luggage are secure properly against slipping or tipping. + Rear seat is securely latched. * Sufficient fuel for the trip. Daily Check * Tyres for abnormal wear, cracks or damage and embedded foreign

fuel for the trip. Daily Check * Tyres for abnormal wear, cracks or damage and embedded foreign mate- rial such as nails, stones, etc. * Traces of fluid and oil below vehicle. Water dripping from the air conditioning system after use is normal. + All lamps, wipers, wiper blades and horn for proper operation. + All switches, gauges and tell tales are working properly. Adjust + Seats, head restraints (if available) and steering wheel position. + All the mirrors properly adjusted. STARTING AND DRIVING Weekly Check + Engine oil level * Coolant level + Brake fluid level + Windshield washer fluid level + Battery electrolyte level + Fuel level * Tyre pressure to be measured at cold condition. * Check tyre pressure and condition after every 15 days including spare wheel. 141  STARTING AND DRIVING DRIVING TIPS Fuel consumption, engine, transmission, brake and tyre wear are mainly affected by below factors: * Operating conditions of your vehicle + Your personal driving style Operating

by below factors: * Operating conditions of your vehicle + Your personal driving style Operating Conditions + Avoid frequent start and stop as these increase fuel consumptions. + Always make sure that the tyre pres- sures are correct. + Do not carry any unnecessary weight. + Regularly, service your vehicle and ad- here to the recommended service maintenance schedule. Personal Driving Style + Do not press the accelerator pedal while starting the engine. + Do not warm up the engine when the vehicle is stationary. + Always adapt your driving style to suit the prevailing road, weather condi- tions, and maintain a safe distance from the vehicle in front. Drive care- 142 fully. + Avoid frequent, sudden acceleration and braking. + Select appropriate gear according to varying speeds and load conditions. @NOTE Do not rest your foot on the clutch pedal while driving. + Switch ‘OFF’ the engine in stationary traffic or at signals. + Keep an eye on the vehicle’s fuel con- sumption. + Driving

in stationary traffic or at signals. + Keep an eye on the vehicle’s fuel con- sumption. + Driving safety systems are merely aids designed to assist driving. You are re- sponsible for the distance to the vehi- cle in front, for vehicle speed and anticipating braking in good time. A\ WARNING You could lose control of your vehicle if you try to adjust the driver’s seat, head restraint, mirror, steering wheel and fas- ten the seat belt while driving. There is a risk of an accident. Recommended Fuel Economy Speeds (MT only) 1 15 2 30 3 50 4 70 5 90 6 105 Good Driving Practices + Slow down before shifting to a lower gear. This will help avoiding revving o' the engine causing damage (for MT). + Avoid frequent brake application which can cause overheating of brakes. + Slow down the vehicle speed while travelling in cross winds. This gives much better control over the vehicle. + Avoid high speed when cornering or turning. + Press the clutch fully while shifting  gears (for MT). Make sure that

when cornering or turning. + Press the clutch fully while shifting  gears (for MT). Make sure that vehicle is completely stationary before you attempt to shift in reverse gear. Drive slowly on wet roads. You can get extra braking from the en- gine by shifting to a lower gear. This can help you to maintain a safe speed and prevent your brakes from over- heating specially while going down a hill. Tips for Obtaining Better Fuel Effi- ciency Always maintain the specified tyre pressure during fuel top-ups and also before a long trip. Vehicle running with low tyre pressure will consume more fuel than the one running with specified tyre pressure. Keep the vehicle clean. Get rid of the not in use luggage/stuff lying in the boot etc. Regularly inspect your vehicle for any leakages, worn out wires, rat bites etc. Always follow periodic & regular serv- ice schedule of the vehicle. Drive smart and smooth in an anticipa- tory manner. Select driving mode to suit your style. Do not accelerate

and smooth in an anticipa- tory manner. Select driving mode to suit your style. Do not accelerate excessively when you are in lower gears (1* or 2"). Be gentle on the accelerator when you are in traffic. In lower gear, opening more throttle will shoot the engine RPM keeping the vehicle still at lower speeds which indirectly implies less distance with more fuel. Be in the maximum possible higher gear at a given speed. This reduces the engine operating speeds which means the engine is running at lower rpm (Revolutions per Minute) for the same vehicle speed. Lesser the num- ber of engine revolution lesser the fuel burned. Avoid harsh braking. Maintain healthy driving habits & while decelerating, do coasting in gear and not in neutral or with clutch pedal pressed. Consider using the car AC when you STARTING AND DRIVING really require. Consider using lower blower speeds rather than higher for cooling as at higher blower speeds it consumes more electric power which is ultimately drawn from

cooling as at higher blower speeds it consumes more electric power which is ultimately drawn from engine by burning fuel. Avoid unnecessary extra electrical loading on the car. Stop the engine wisely at traffic sig- nals. Switch ‘OFF’ the engine at the traffic signal only if the stoppage time is high (typically more than 30 sec). While driving on highways, drive with windows closed. The more you open the windows the higher will be the re- sistance to the vehicle at higher speeds which will reduce the fuel effi- ciency. Do not over speed; follow the speed limits. More the speed, higher the ex- ternal resistance on the vehicle which will finally result into unnecessary con- sumption of fuel. 143  STARTING AND DRIVING Running-in Period The more you look after the engine when it is new, the more satisfied you will be with its performance in the future. Avoid rapid acceleration and prolonged high speed running of the engine for the irst 2,000 km. Do not exceed the following road speeds

high speed running of the engine for the irst 2,000 km. Do not exceed the following road speeds during running in period. 15 30 45 60 80 6 100 a] &} ©) rm) = Avoid heavy loads, e.g. driving at full throt- le, during this period. Change gears judi- ciously. While cruising, brief full-throttle accelera- ion within the limits of local traffic laws contributes to a good break-in. Wide- opened throttle acceleration can be detri- 144 mental and should be avoided. @NOTE Avoid excessive revving up of engine rpm. Do not keep engine at idling for long duration.  SEAT ADJUSTMENTS Driver Seat Adjustments (option 1) Following seat adjustments can be carried out manually. 1. Backrest Angle 2. Seat Height Adjustment (if available) 3. Seat forward / rearward adjustment A\ WARNING Do not adjust the driver’s seat while driving. Adjusting the seat while driving could cause the driver to lose control of the vehicle. 1. Seat Backrest Angle Adjustment To change the seat back rest angle, lean forward

of the vehicle. 1. Seat Backrest Angle Adjustment To change the seat back rest angle, lean forward slightly and pull up the lever (1). Adjust seat backrest until it reaches de- sired comfortable position. Make sure that lever returns to its original position and seat is securely latched. Adjust the seat backrest until your arms are slightly angled when holding the steering wheel. A\ WARNING Never travel in a moving vehicle with the seat backrest in an excessively re- clined position as this can be danger- ous. You could slide un-der the seat belt in a collision. 2. Seat Height Adjustment (if available) To raise the seat, pull and continue pump- ing the lever (2) in the upward direction STARTING AND DRIVING until the seat is at the desired height. To lower the seat, pump the lever down- ward until the seat is at desired height. 3. Seat Forward / Rearward Adjustment Lift lever (3) and slide the seat forwards or rearwards. Release lever and make sure that seat is securely latched. @ NOTE

the seat forwards or rearwards. Release lever and make sure that seat is securely latched. @ NOTE Adjust the driver seat position in such a way that the driver will be able to oper- ate the control pedals comfortably. 145  STARTING AND DRIVING Power Seat Adjustments (Option 2) Front seat adjustments: Following seat adjustments can be carried out automatically. Backrest angle adjustment Seat height adjustment (if equipped) Seat forward / rearward adjustment Seat ventilation (if equipped) WARNING Pen > Do not adjust the driver’s seat while driving. Adjusting the seat while driving 146 could cause the driver to lose control of the vehicle. 1. Seat Backrest Angle Adjustment To change the seat back rest angle, lean forward slightly and operate the button slightly(1) as per arrow mark either for- ward or rearward as required. Adjust seat backrest until it reaches desired comfort- able position and then release the button. 2. Seat Height Adjustment (if Equipped) To raise the seat, pull the

and then release the button. 2. Seat Height Adjustment (if Equipped) To raise the seat, pull the button slightly (2) in the upward direction as per arrow mark, until the seat is at the desired height. To lower the seat, push the button downward until the seat is at desired height. @NOTE Adjust the driver seat position in such a way that the driver will be able to oper- ate the control pedals conformably. Do not apply over force on power oper- ated buttons as it may damage them. Button operates with slight finger force as they are electronically controlled. Avoid unnecessary operation of power seat adjustment buttons as it consumes power from vehicle battery. Do not operate more than one opera- tion button simultaneously. 3. Seat Forward / Rearward To move seat forward push the button(3) slightly forward as per the arrow mark, to move seat rearward pull the button in rear- ward direction make sure that seat is se- curely latched. 4. Seat Ventilation (for Driver And Co- driver) To start

make sure that seat is se- curely latched. 4. Seat Ventilation (for Driver And Co- driver) To start ventilation, press button (4) once. It's has 3 ventilation adjustment in de- creasing order and LED glows for each press. To Stop the ventilation long press button (4) for few seconds. Default setting is highest speed on first press.  is , as it will not allow ventilated seats STARTING AND DRIVING The ventilated seat by default is set to OFF whenever the ENGINE START/STOP button is turned ON. @ NOTE Do not apply excessive force on venti- lation button as it may get damaged. Button operates with slight finger force as they are electronically controlled. To protect ventilated seats- + Use the air ventilation seat ONLY when the vehicle HVAC system is ON. + Never use alcohol based liquids to clean the Seats as it may damage the leatherette material. + Avoid spillage of liquids on the venti- lated seats surface this may lead to blockage of air path/ holes ventilated seat system and may not

lated seats surface this may lead to blockage of air path/ holes ventilated seat system and may not function properly. ¢ Do not add seat covers, as it will not allow ventilated seats to function properly. + Donot keep plastic covers of seat as it to function properly. Lumbar Support (if available) Continuous (Multiple adjusting position) lumbar support is provided on driver and front passenger seat to give you comfort while driving. It is adjusted by the lever provided on the side of the seat backrest. Captain Seat Adjustment 2nd Row (Option 3) Following seat adjustments can be carried out manually. 1. Backrest angle 2. Seat forward / rearward adjustment lever 3. Seat ventilation (if equipped) 1. Seat Backrest Angle Adjustment To change the seat back rest angle, lean forward slightly and pull up the lever (1). Adjust seat backrest until it reaches de- 147  STARTING AND DRIVING sired comfortable position. Make sure that lever returns to its original position and seat is securely

comfortable position. Make sure that lever returns to its original position and seat is securely latched. 2. Seat Forward / Rearward Lift lever (2) and slide the seat forwards or rearwards. Release lever and make sure that seat is securely latched. 3. Seat Ventilation To start ventilation, press button (3) once. It's has 3 ventilation adjustment in de- creasing order and LED glows for each press. To Stop the ventilation long press button (3) for Few seconds. Default setting is highest speed on first press. HIGH J é3 To protect ventilated seats- + Use the air ventilation seat ONLY when the vehicle HVAC system is on. + Never use a liquids like alcohol, high viscosity oils or other to spill on venti- lated seats. 148 + Avoid spillage of liquids on the venti- lated seats surface this may lead to blockage of ventilated seat system and may not function properly. ¢ Do not add seat covers, as it will not allow ventilated seats to function prop- erly. + Donot keep plastic covers of seat as it

will not allow ventilated seats to function prop- erly. + Donot keep plastic covers of seat as it is , as it will not allow ventilated seats to function properly. @NOTE Do not apply excessive force on venti- lation button as it may get damaged. Button operates with slight finger force as they are electronically controlled. The ventilated seat by default is set to OFF whenever the ENGINE START/STOP button is turned on. Arm Rest Adjustment A foldable arm rest is available in the cap- tain seat. When not required, fold the arm- rest back into the seat. Captain Seat Child Seat Installation Captain seat contains Isofix with Top- Tether. it is recommended to install child seat in armrest Non-use position. Armrest Non-use position  Captain Seat Third Row Entry Entry to third row seat to be done through gang way space (between two captain seats). Adjustment for Co-driver Seat To improve the Second Row occupant legroom (Space), Occupant Can adjust the Co-driver seat using the lever (1).

Second Row occupant legroom (Space), Occupant Can adjust the Co-driver seat using the lever (1). Operate Lever (1) in forward direction & Push the seat forward as shown by arrow (2) until seat is at desired comfortable po- sition. STARTING AND DRIVING Adjustable Head Restraint Front Seat Adjust the head restraint so that it is as close to the head as possible and the cen- er of the head restraint supports the back of the head at eye level. This will reduce he risk of injury to the head and neck in he event of an accident or similar situa- ion. 9°99 Correctly adjusted Incorrectly adjusted _ Incorrectly adjusted A\ WARNING Do not drive the vehicle without the seat head restraints. Head restraints are in- tended to help reduce injuries during an accident. 149  STARTING AND DRIVING Rear Seats Adjustment (60 - 40%) Following seat adjustments can be carried out manually. 1. Backrest Angle 2. Seat forward / rearward adjustment lever 3. Seat Armrest Adjustment 150 Seat Backrest Angle

2. Seat forward / rearward adjustment lever 3. Seat Armrest Adjustment 150 Seat Backrest Angle Adjustment To change the seat back rest angle, lean forward slightly and pull backrest release knob (1). Adjust seat backrest until it reaches desired comfortable position. Make sure that lever returns to its original position and seat is securely latched. Seat Forward / Rearward Adjustment + Use the seat sliding feature of 2nd row seat to improve the comfort and con- venience. + Lift lever (2) and slide the seat forward or rearward. Release lever and make sure that seat is securely latched. Seat Armrest Adjustment A foldable arm rest (3) is available in the 60% seat. When not required, fold the armrest back into the seat. NOTE + Remove all items and cups before folding the cup holders. + Use cups, containers, bottles of right size and which have lids. + The content could otherwise spill. Child Seat Installation 60-40% seat contains Isofix with Top- Tether. it is recommended to install child

Seat Installation 60-40% seat contains Isofix with Top- Tether. it is recommended to install child seat in armrest Non-use position.  STARTING AND DRIVING Second Row Seat Folding (60-40% ~- Press the backrest release knob to fold Split Seat) the backrest seat forward. You can increase the luggage capacity by folding the respective rear seats as re- quired. To fold the seat: 151  STARTING AND DRIVING + Fold the backrest seat forward. Move the driver and front passenger seat for- ward if necessary. + Follow the same procedure for other rear seat. 152 Press the backrest release knob to fold the backrest seat forward. + Fold the backrest seat forward. Move the driver and front passenger seat for- ward if necessary. @ NOTE + Ensure that ‘foldable arm rest’ is close before seat folding. + Fold both seats if required.  Rear Seat Folding (Complete Seat 100%) To fold the seat: + Simultaneously, press the backrest re- lease knobs provided on both side. STARTING AND DRIVING Fold the backrest

press the backrest re- lease knobs provided on both side. STARTING AND DRIVING Fold the backrest seat forward. Move the driver and front passenger seat for- ward if necessary. A\ WARNING You should always engage the rear seat back rest if you do not need the through loading feature. If the rear bench seat and seat backrest are not engaged they could fold forwards, e.g. when brak- ing suddenly or in the event of an accident. 153  STARTING AND DRIVING + The vehicle occupant would thereby be pushed into the seat belt by the rear bench seat or by the seat back- rest. The seat belt can no longer offer the intended level of protection and could even cause injuries. * Objects or loads in the trunk cannot be restrained by the seat backrest. There is an increased risk of injury. + Before every trip, make sure that the seat backrests and the rear bench seat/rear seat are engaged and se- curely latched. 154 Third Row Entry To access to Third row seat A\ WARNING The second row seat are designed

154 Third Row Entry To access to Third row seat A\ WARNING The second row seat are designed as foldable type to enable the passenger to get entry into the Third row. To get access to third row seats, first fold & tumble the 40% second row seat using the seat folding release knob. If required assist the seat for tumble operation. To return the seat back to original po- sition once the passenger enters the third row, unfold the tumbled seat, op- erate the shoulder lever and lift the backrest to the upright position till it locks into its original position. While folding the Second row seat, after getting inside the Third row seat, never keep your feet on the seat locking brackets. Never drive the vehicle with 40% seat in tumble condition. ( AX WARNING  STARTING AND DRIVING Third Row Seat Folding + Headrest to be in full down condition to fold the seat back. + Adjust the second row seat if required. + Pull the plastic lever & after click sound of unlatching, hand push in the sea’ back to

required. + Pull the plastic lever & after click sound of unlatching, hand push in the sea’ back to lean it forward. Both the seats can be independently folded to create extra luggage space accordingly. =" aa 155  STARTING AND DRIVING + Pull only the straps (2) to lift the seat back to original position and not the plastic lever. D) NOTE Lever to be only pulled for unlatch-ing. it cannot be used simultane-ously for pull and pushing the seat as well. WARNING * You should always engage the rear seat back rest unless you need extra luggage space. + If the rear seat & seat backrest are not latched properly, they could fold forward during hard braking or in the event of collision. 156  REAR VIEW MIRRORS Inside Rear View Mirror (IRVM) (if available) To adjust the mirror move the mirror up, move down or sideways to obtain the best rear view. When driving at night, set the selector tab io select anti-glare mode (if available) to reduce glare from the headlights of vehi- cles behind you. Use

anti-glare mode (if available) to reduce glare from the headlights of vehi- cles behind you. Use antiglare position only when neces- Sary, as it reduces rear view clarity. Automatic Dimming IRVM (if avail- able) T= Le == — - il 1. Photocell Sensors 2. ON/OFF button Automatic dimming rear view mirror auto- matically controls the glare from the head- lights of the car behind you in night time or low light driving conditions. Press ON/OFF STARTING AND DRIVING button to turn ON the automatic dimming function. The LED indicator on the IRVM shows the active status of auto dimming function. The auto dimming IRVM is defaults to the ON position whenever the ignition switch is turned ON and it is switched OFF when- ever reverse gear is engaged. For proper operation, keep the photo- cell sensors clean and do not cover the area between the IRVM and the wind- shield. Outer Rear View Mirrors (ORVM) You can adjust the outer rear view mirrors manually by joy stick or remotely by knob. Adjust the

You can adjust the outer rear view mirrors manually by joy stick or remotely by knob. Adjust the outside rear view mirrors to de- sired position. @ NOTE Objects visible in mirror are actually closer than they appear. Always make sure of the actual distance from the road users traveling behind by glancing 157  STARTING AND DRIVING over your shoulder. Motorized Outer Rear View Mirrors (if available) The switch to adjust the motorized mirrors is located on the driver’s door. You can ad- just the mirrors when the ignition switch is in the “ACC” or “ON” position. Mirror Folding To fold / unfold the ORVMs, keep the Se- lector switch in center position (i.e. neither ‘L’ nor ‘R, position) and then toggle down. 158 NOTE When vehicle is locked, mirrors will be folded automatically. When it is un- locked, mirrors will be unfolded auto- matically. To Adjust the Mirrors 1. Move the mirror selection switch to L (for left side) and R (for right side) to select the mirror you wish to adjust. Use the

switch to L (for left side) and R (for right side) to select the mirror you wish to adjust. Use the 4 positions of the knob to ad- just the rear view mirrors to required position. Rear View Mirrors with Joy Stick Knob (if available) You can adjust the outer rear view mirrors manually by joy stick knob located in the driver and front passenger door panel. f required mirrors are folded manually.  SUN VISORS 1. Mirror Flap 2. Vanity Mirror 3. Light for Vanity Mirror Mirror Flap (if available) The sun visors can be pulled down to block the glare coming through the wind- shield. To block the glare from side windows: Pull down the sun visor and release it from retainer. Swing the sun visor to the side. Vanity Mirror (if available) Vanity mirror is provided on the back of the front passenger side sun visor. Light for Vanity Mirror (if available) Itis provided beside the vanity mirror. Light glows ‘ON’ as soon as flap of vanity mirror is open. STARTING AND DRIVING STEERING WHEEL ADJUSTMENT

glows ‘ON’ as soon as flap of vanity mirror is open. STARTING AND DRIVING STEERING WHEEL ADJUSTMENT (if available) You can adjust the steering wheel position to suit your convenience. The release lever is located under the steering column. To Adjust the Steering Wheel 1. Adjust the seat to a comfortable posi- tion. 2. Pull down release lever completely to unlock the steering column. 3. Adjust the steering wheel to the de- sired position by moving steering 159  STARTING AND DRIVING wheel in axial and radial direction (tele- scopic & tilt). 4. Push release lever up completely to lock the steering column. 5. Make sure that steering wheel is se- curely lock by checking up and down direction. 160 @ NOTE When adjusting the steering wheel, make sure that: + You can operate control pedals without any obstacles. + You can see all the displays in the instrument cluster clearly. A\ WARNING + Before starting off, make sure that the steering wheel position is locked. + Never unlock or adjust the

starting off, make sure that the steering wheel position is locked. + Never unlock or adjust the steering wheel while the vehicle is in motion. STEERING LOCK AND IGNITION SWITCH (if available) The ignition switch has the following four positions: LOCK - This is the normal parking posi- tion. Key from lock can be removed in this position only. “LOCK” position prevents normal use of the steering wheel after the key is re- moved. To release the steering lock, insert the key and turn it clockwise to one of the other positions.  ACC - Accessories such as the infotain- ment system can be operated, but the en- gine remains ‘OFF’. Steering gets unlocked. ON - This is the normal operating position. All electrical systems are ‘ON’. START - Turn the key further clockwise to the START position, (spring loaded) to start the engine. As soon as the engine starts, release the ignition key, which re- turns to ON position. While cranking, all accessories will be momentarily ‘OFF’. Illuminated Key Ring

to ON position. While cranking, all accessories will be momentarily ‘OFF’. Illuminated Key Ring (if available) When the vehicle is unlocked, the illumi- nated key ring glows up. This helps to lo- cate ignition switch in the dark. @ NOTE The engine can only be started when the gearshift lever is in “N” position with the clutch pedal firmly pressed. @ NOTE For Auto Transmission vehicle, ACC: Key rotation from ACC to lock po- sition only happen when gear lever is in Parking position. STARTING AND DRIVING STARTING AND STOPPING (with- out PEPS) Manual Transmission (MT) Starting the Engine Make sure that parking brake is engaged and vehicle is in neutral gear. Press the clutch pedal fully and crank the engine. Do not press the accelerator pedal while starting the engine. @ NOTE The Starter protection system fitted in this vehicle does not allow you to crank the engine until you fully press the clutch pedal. Release the key as soon as the engine starts. Repeat if engine does not start. @

the clutch pedal. Release the key as soon as the engine starts. Repeat if engine does not start. @ NOTE The Starter protection system switches off the starter when it is continuously cranked for more than 10 secs. In such a case, get the key back to ‘OFF’ posi 161  STARTING AND DRIVING tion & wait for 30 secs. A\ WARNING The engine emits poisonous exhaust gases such as carbon monoxide. Inhal- ing these exhaust gases leads to poi- soning. There is a risk of fatal injury. Therefore, never leave the engine run- ning in enclosed spaces without suffi- cient ventilation. After starting, run the engine in idle speed for at least 30 seconds. Do not press accelerated pedal while starting the engine to avoid damage to tur- bocharger. Starting Off To start off, press the clutch pedal fully and shift into first gear. After releasing the parking brake, gradu- ally release the clutch and slowly press the accelerator. 162 @NOTE When shifting or starting off, do not race the engine. Racing the engine

the accelerator. 162 @NOTE When shifting or starting off, do not race the engine. Racing the engine can shorten engine life and affect smooth shifting. Stopping the Engine Turn the key to ‘ACC’ position to switch off the engine. Before switching off the en- gine, run the engine in idle condition for at least 30 seconds and then switch off. This will allow the engine oil to lubricate the tur- bocharger, till its speed is fully reduced and also allow the unit to cool down. WARNING + A quick burst on the accelerator be- fore turning off the engine serves no practical purpose, it wastes fuel and can damage turbocharger. + Do not switch off the engine when it is running at high speed. This will lead to premature turbocharger bearing wear. Gear Shifting and Driving The gearshift pattern is as shown on the gear lever knob. Gear shifting should al- ways be done with clutch pedal pressed.  Gear recommendation is displayed when the clutch pedal is in fully re- leased position. If “F” is

Gear recommendation is displayed when the clutch pedal is in fully re- leased position. If “F” is displayed in DIS of instru- ment cluster, it means ‘Fault’ condi- tion. Contact a TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre. Press the clutch fully when gear shifting. The reverse gear should be engaged only when the vehicle is stationary. Wait for 5 seconds after declutching to ensure smooth en- gagement of the reverse gear. Do not press clutch pedal while driv- ing the vehicle or when stationary on a slope. When vehicle is in ACC/IGN/RUN mode and user does any door state transition including tailgate and if PEPS does not detect smart key in- side the vehicle when last door in cluding tailgate is closed, then audio warning chime comes ON. Reverse Gear For engaging reverse gear, lift the latch and keeping latch lifted, shift to reverse position. A\ WARNING STARTING AND DRIVING Never run the vehicle out of gear and coast down a hill. This is ex- tremely hazardous. Always run the vehicle in

vehicle out of gear and coast down a hill. This is ex- tremely hazardous. Always run the vehicle in gear. Slow down before shifting to a lower gear. This will help avoid over- revving the engine, which can cause damage. Ensure the vehicle is completely stopped before putting into reverse gear. It may cause damaged to the transmission. 163  STARTING AND DRIVING Automatic Transmission (if available) The Automatic transmission has 6 forward and one reverse gear. The individual gears are select automatically, depending on po- sition of gear shift lever. Starting Off To start off, switch ON ignition switch and crank the engine, depress the brake pedal fully and release the parking brake. Press the shift lock button on the knob of gear selector lever and move the lever from Parking (P) mode to Drive (D) mode. 164 Park (P) Use Park (P) position when starting the engine or parking the vehicle. Apply the park- ing brake whenever the vehi- cle is to be parked. The selector lever must be engaged

the park- ing brake whenever the vehi- cle is to be parked. The selector lever must be engaged in Park (P) position only when the vehicle is stationary. DO not engage Parking Posi- tion (P) in running condition. If engaged while the vehicle is in motion it may severely damage the transmission. Pp’ ali CITY Before leaving the driver's seat, always make sure the shift lever is in the P (Park) position; then apply parking brake fully and shut the engine off. If this is not followed, Unexpected and sudden vehicle move- ment can occur. Reverse (R) This position puts the trans- mission in reverse gear when engaged in stationary condition with brake pedal fully pressed. The selector shall never be moved into re- R’ ali CITY verse while driving forward. Neutral (N) The transmission is in Neu- tral position. It enables the engine to start and operate without driving the vehicle. Drive Mode (D) This position is for normal driving conditions for maxi- mum efficiency and _ fuel economy. It should

position is for normal driving conditions for maxi- mum efficiency and _ fuel economy. It should be used as often as possible. To move the selector to D mode; press the Shift lock button in the handle of the selec- tor lever and at the same time press the brake pedal fully. Manual/sport Mode (M/S) This display shows vehicle is in Manual/Sport mode. als CITY This position allows the driver to switch to activate Manual mode to select gears like a manual gearbox.  Pressing the shift lever towards left side while in Drive mode will put the transmis- sion in Manual mode. The gear selector moves freely between the Manual (M) and Drive (D) positions. As soon as shifter is moved forward or back- ward, the Manual (M) mode is activated. It is possible to shift from D mode to Man- ual mode and vice versa at any time dur- ing driving. To return back to Manual mode if it has been selected; move the selector lever to Drive mode (by tapping the lever towards right) and engage it again to M mode. If

selector lever to Drive mode (by tapping the lever towards right) and engage it again to M mode. If Manual mode is selected, 1st gear must be used for moving off from stationary con- dition. In sports mode, only the 6 forward gears can be selected. To reverse or park the ve- hicle, move the shift lever to the R (Re- verse) or P (Park) mode as required. ‘+’ For Upshifting in Manual mode Push the gearshift lever to the “+” direction and release it. Every time the lever is op- erated, upshifting takes place one step at a time in the order of 1% > 2" > 37 > 4h > 5" > 6" gear. ‘-’ For Downshifting in Manual mode Pull the gearshift lever to the “—” direction and release it. Every time the lever is op- erated, downshifting takes place in the or- der 6th > 5% > 4th > 3rd > 2nd > 48t gear. In Manual/sports mode, downshifts are made automatically when the vehicle slows down. 1*' gear is automatically se- lected when the vehicle stops. In Manual/sports mode, when the engine rpm approaches the

se- lected when the vehicle stops. In Manual/sports mode, when the engine rpm approaches the intended limits, up- shift will be made automatically by varying the shift points. Transmission Control Unit may disallow incorrect manual shift command by user and a message ‘Driver Control Shift de- nied’ is displayed on Instrument Cluster. STARTING AND DRIVING + In order to protect the engine, the transmission will automatically up- shift to prevent engine over-revving OR downshift to prevent engine Stalling at certain specified engine rpm limits. + The first few shifts on a new vehicle, maybe somewhat abrupt after TCU. replacement or software updation. This is normal condition. Shifting se- quence will get adjusted after few shift cycle by TCU (Transmission Control Unit). Shift Lever - Manually Unlock Process 165  STARTING AND DRIVING Fig 2 When vehicle is in ON condition and shift lever is locked/cannot moved from P (park) mode to other mode with the brake pedal depressed, below steps to

locked/cannot moved from P (park) mode to other mode with the brake pedal depressed, below steps to be fol- lowed: 1. Apply the parking brake first. 2. Carefully squeeze & remove the bel- low (1) by pulling it in upward direction as shown in area by arrows (shown in fig.1) 3. Press & hold the release button (2) provided on shifter housing till you move the shift lever from P (park) mode to other mode by simultaneously pressing the knob button (3) (Shown in fig.2). 166 . Carefully insert the bellow lugs (4) & snap fit in console cutout (5) high- lighted as dotted area (shown in fig.2). . Ensure the system is inspected by au- thorized dealer or service partner.  Automatic Gear Shifter Lever Movement and Conditions Lever Position Movement STARTING AND DRIVING Driver Intervention For Shift Brake Pedal Driver Shift =< el Toh P->>R ®S) ng! io =P) - . . 7 him) R->>N Not required Not required a) =P) AX a N->>D Not required =) i =?) son D->>M/S Not required Not required =P) -k eee) M/S->>D Not

=P) AX a N->>D Not required =) i =?) son D->>M/S Not required Not required =P) -k eee) M/S->>D Not required Not required 167  STARTING AND DRIVING Driver Intervention For Shift Brake Pedal Not required Driver Shift Not required Not required Doon NooR Ro>P Not required ay iS) Brake Pedal Pressed # Shifter Lever Knob Pressed 168  @ NOTE AX WARNING Before engaging in any mode (P-R- N-D), Apply brake first then knob button to be pressed for safety rea- son. Before selecting the ‘MW’ mode (man- ual mode), Ensure shift lever is placed in D mode first. Then engage M mode smoothly & vice versa. This sequence to be followed to ensure safety of system. To avoid damage of transmission, do not accelerate the engine in R (Reverse) or any for- ward gear po- sitions with the brakes ON. When stopped on an incline roads, Use the service brake or the parking brake, do not hold the vehicle sta- tionary with engine power. Do not shift from N (Neutral) or P (Park) into D (Drive), or R (Reverse) when the

engine power. Do not shift from N (Neutral) or P (Park) into D (Drive), or R (Reverse) when the engine is above idle rpm. Always shift the gears inline in se- quence of (P-R-N-D). Do not try to shifts abruptly. STARTING AND DRIVING 169  STARTING AND DRIVING Shift Lock System For your safety, the automatic trans-mis- sion has a shift lock system which pre- vents shifting the transmission from P (Park) into R (Reverse) unless the brake pedal is depressed. To shift the transmission from P (Park) into R (Reverse): 1. Press and hold the brake pedal. 2. Start the engine or turn the ignition switch to the ON position. 3. Move the shift lever to R mode. If the brake pedal is repeatedly de- pressed and released with the shift lever in the P (Park) position, noise may be heard. This is a normal condition. Key Interlock System for AT 1. For Mechanical Lockset Shift the GSL to P position and then switch OFF Ignition and take out the key. 2. For PEPS 170 Shift GSL to P position and then only Igni-

OFF Ignition and take out the key. 2. For PEPS 170 Shift GSL to P position and then only Igni- tion will be switched else vehicle will move to accessory on till GSL is moved to P po- sition. @NOTE If the Brake pedal is repeatedly de- pressed and released slowly with the shift Lever in R (Reverse) position, noise may be heard. This is a normal condition. A\ WARNING Always depress the brake pedal fully, before and while shifting out of the P (Park) mode into another position. This is to avoid unintended motion of the ve- hicle which could injure the passengers inside or around the vehicle. @NOTE Good Driving Practices (AT) + Never move the shift lever from P (Park) or N (Neutral) to any other position with the accelerator pedal depressed. Never move the shift lever into P (Park) when the vehicle is in motion. Be ensure the vehicle is completely stopped before shifting into R (Re- verse) or D (Drive). Always use the parking brake. Do not depend on placing the transmis- sion in P (Park)

or D (Drive). Always use the parking brake. Do not depend on placing the transmis- sion in P (Park) to keep the vehicle from moving. Optimum vehicle performance and fuel economy is obtained by smoothly depressing and re-leasing the accelerator pedal.  STARTING AND STOPPING (PEPS) (if available) Engine Passive Start/stop Start/Stop switch is provided on the dash- board towards the right side of steering wheel. Start / Stop Switch A Start Stop Switch (SSSW) or Push to Start Button is a main component of Pas- sive (Engine) Start and Stop sys-tem. It is used to control ACC, IGN out-puts as well as to start and stop the engine. @ NOTE + If Smart key is inside the vehicle and on pressing start stop switch, if start stop switch green LED blink for 10 sec. duration then rotate steering wheel and simultaneously press start stop switch again. + If smart key is inside the vehicle and on pressing start stop switch, if start stop switch green LED blinks more than 10 sec. duration then contact

start stop switch, if start stop switch green LED blinks more than 10 sec. duration then contact authorized TATA MOTORS dealer. + If ESCL (Electronic Steering Col- umn Lock) is not unlocked properly, then vehicle doesn’t go into ACC mode. Backup Start If smart key battery voltage is low or empty and vehicle is in OFF mode then to start the engine user needs to press start/stop button two times with interval of 2.5 sec. between two switch press after pressing the clutch pedal OR brake with valid smart key near Immobilizer antenna (located STARTING AND DRIVING below front cup holder). Emergency Start If vehicle engine is switched from ON to OFF and Start Stop button is pressed with clutch press within 5 sec, Engine gets cranked. @ NOTE If ESCL (Electronic Steering Column Lock) is not unlocked properly, then En- gine will not get cranked. 171  STARTING AND DRIVING ENGINE PASSIVE START - CONDI- TIONS Single Press Start 1. Bring the smart key with you and sit in the driver seat. 2. Press

TIONS Single Press Start 1. Bring the smart key with you and sit in the driver seat. 2. Press the clutch pedal and then press the start-stop switch. 3. Green colour LED on start-stop switch will turn ON. 4. Once engine starts successfully, green colour LED on start-stop switch will re- main ON. Two Step Start a) Step 1 1. Bring the smart key with you and sit in the driver seat. 2. Press the start-stop switch without pressing clutch pedal. 3. Amber colour LED on start-stop switch turns ON. 4. Engine will remain OFF and all electri- cal equipment and infotainment sys- tem can be used. Steering is unlocked. 172 b) Step 2 1. Press the clutch pedal and then press start-stop switch to start the engine. 2. Green colour LED on start-stop switch will turn ON. 3. Once engine start successfully, green colour LED on start-stop switch will re- main ON. Three Step Start a) Step 1 1. Bring the smart key with you and sit in he driver seat. 2. Press the start-stop switch without pressing clutch pedal.

with you and sit in he driver seat. 2. Press the start-stop switch without pressing clutch pedal. 3. Amber colour LED on start-stop switch will turn ON. 4. Limited display on instrument cluster will be ON and steering will be un- locked. Engine remain OFF. b) Step 2 1. Press the start-stop switch without pressing clutch pedal again. 2. Green colour LED on start-stop switch will turn ON. 3. Engine will remain OFF and all elec-tri- cal equipment and infotainment sys- tem can be used. c) Step 3 1. Press the clutch pedal and then press start-stop switch to start the engine. 2. Green colour LED on start-stop switch will turn ON. 3. Once engine started successfully, green colour LED on start-stop switch will remain ON.  ENGINE PASSIVE STOP - CONDI- TIONS Passive Stop / Off - Single Press Stop GN is ON and engine is running. Customer presses start-stop switch with clutch pedal. ACC and IGN relay turns OFF. LED on start-stop switch turns OFF. Emergency Stop / Off - Single Long Press Stop GN

turns OFF. LED on start-stop switch turns OFF. Emergency Stop / Off - Single Long Press Stop GN is ON and engine is running. Vehicle is in running condition i.e. wheel rpm >10 RPM or wheel sensor aulty. Customer does long press of start-stop switch i.e. pressed for more than 3 seconds. GN relay turns OFF, ACC relay re- mains ON. Amber colour LED on start-stop switch urns ON. AX WARNING When vehicle is in OFF mode ( ACC, IGN and Crank OFF) and user tries to lock the vehicle from outside by press- ing any door handle switch and if PEPS detect smart key left inside the vehicle, then audio warning / chime comes ON. STARTING AND DRIVING MANUAL TRANSMISSION (MT) Starting the Engine Make sure that parking brake is engaged and vehicle is in neutral gear. Press the clutch pedal fully and crank the engine. Do not press the accelerator pedal when starting the engine. @ NOTE The Starter protection system fitted in this vehicle does not allow you to crank the engine until you fully press the a

system fitted in this vehicle does not allow you to crank the engine until you fully press the a clutch pedal. Release the key as soon as the engine starts. Repeat if engine does not start. @ NOTE The Starter protection system switches off the starter when it is continuously cranked for more than 10 secs. In such a case, get the key back to ‘OFF’ posi- tion & wait for 30 secs. 173  STARTING AND DRIVING A\ WARNING The engine emits poisonous exhaust gases such as carbon monoxide. Inhal- ing these exhaust gases leads to poi- soning. There is a risk of fatal injury. Therefore, never leave the engine run- ning in enclosed spaces without suffi- cient ventilation. @ NOTE + After starting, run the engine in idle speed for at least 30 seconds. Do not press accelerated pedal while starting the engine to avoid damage to turbocharger. + When vehicle is in ACC/IGN/RUN mode and user does any door state transition including tailgate and if PEPS does not detect smart key in- side the vehicle when

state transition including tailgate and if PEPS does not detect smart key in- side the vehicle when last door in- cluding tailgate is closed, then audio warning chime comes ON. Stopping the Engine Press the start stop switch to switch off the engine. Before switching off the engine, run the engine in idle condition for at least 30 seconds and then switch off. This will allow the engine oil to lubricate the tur- bocharger, till its speed is fully reduced and also allow the unit to cool down. A\ WARNING + A quick burst on the accelerator be- fore turning off the engine serves no practical purpose, it wastes fuel and can damage turbocharger. + Do not switch off the engine when it is running at high speed. This will lead to premature turbocharger bearing wear. Starting Off To start off, press the clutch pedal fully and shift into first gear. After releasing the parking brake, gradu- ally release the clutch and slowly press the accelerator. @ NOTE When shifting or starting off, do not race

the clutch and slowly press the accelerator. @ NOTE When shifting or starting off, do not race the engine. Racing the engine can shorten engine life and affect smooth Shifting.  Gear Shifting And Driving The gearshift pattern is as shown on the gear lever knob. Gear shifting should al- ways be done with clutch pedal pressed. Reverse Gear For engaging reverse gear, lift the latch and by keeping latch lifted, shift to reverse position. NOTE Gear recommendation is displayed when the clutch pedal is in fully re- leased position. If “F” is displayed in DIS of instru- ment cluster, it means ‘Fault’ condi- tion. Contact the TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre. STARTING AND DRIVING Press the clutch fully while shifting the gear. The reverse gear should be engaged only when the vehicle is stationary. Wait for 5 seconds after declutching to ensure smooth engagement of the reverse gear. Do not press clutch pedal while driv- ing the vehicle or when stationary on a slope. WARNING . . Do not

press clutch pedal while driv- ing the vehicle or when stationary on a slope. WARNING . . Do not switch off the ignition while driving. If you switch off the ignition while driving, safety-relevant functions are only available with limitations, or not at all. This could affect the power steering and the brake boosting ef- fect. You will require considerably more effort to steer and brake. There is a risk of an accident. 175  STARTING AND DRIVING You may notice a noise from transmis- sion under certain circumstances. This noise is normal and is not an indication of a problem with your clutch or trans- mission. This noise may be noticed when vehicle is idling in NEUTRAL con- dition with the clutch engaged (clutch pedal released) or when the transmis- sion is warm. It may also be heard while driving. @ NOTE + Your vehicle is equipped with Dual Mass Flywheel (DMF), which plays important role in providing refined powertrain / driveline experience. + Driving at very low engine speed is

role in providing refined powertrain / driveline experience. + Driving at very low engine speed is likely to stall the engine, especially when driven without any accelerator pedal inputs. Recommended Driving Precautions: Shift to lower gear as per gearshift indicator (GSI) on cluster. To start-off (marching/ drive away), always engage in first gear. While down shifting (from 3% to 2" gear) at low engine RPM's (below 1000 rpm) press accelerator pedal to provide required rpm. DRIVING Climbing Sharp Gradients on Loose Surfaces Start off smoothly in a suitable gear. Accel- erate smoothly so that there is no loss of traction by over-revving of the engine. Choose a slope as smooth as possible and select the appropriate gear so that gear changing in the middle of the climb is not required. Changing gears in the middle of the climb can cause loss of momentum and engine stalling. Shifting to lower gear has to be done cautiously to avoid loss of traction. Under no conditions should the vehicle

gear has to be done cautiously to avoid loss of traction. Under no conditions should the vehicle be moved diagonally across a hill. The dan- ger is in loss of traction and sideways slip- page, possibly resulting in toppling over. If unavoidable, choose as mild an angle as possible and keep the vehicle moving. If the wheels start to slip within few feet of the end of the climb, motion can be main- tained by swinging the steered wheels left and right, thereby providing increased grip. If the vehicle stalls or losses headway  while climbing a steep hill, make a quick shift to reverse and allow the vehicle to move back with the control of engine com- pression. Descending Sharp Gradients Depending on the severity of the gradient, shift into appropriate gear. Use engine braking judiciously without over-revving the engine. Brake application under such situations should be done very. AX WARNING When descending on sharp gradients, NEVER turn the ignition key to the ‘OFF’ position. Emission

When descending on sharp gradients, NEVER turn the ignition key to the ‘OFF’ position. Emission control system damage may result. STOPPING THE VEHICLE Turn the key to ‘ACC’ position to switch off the engine. Before switching off the en- gine, run the engine in idle condition for at least 30 seconds and then switch off. This will allow the engine oil to lubricate the tur- bocharger, till its speed is fully reduced and also allow the unit to cool down. AX WARNING A quick burst on the accelerator before turning off the engine serves absolutely no practical purpose, it wastes fuel and can damage turbocharger. AX WARNING Do not switch the engine off when it is running at high speed. This will lead to premature turbocharger bearing wear. STARTING AND DRIVING BRAKING Your vehicle has power assisted brakes. The distance needed to bring the vehicle to a halt increases with the speed of the vehicle. Start applying brake anticipating the distance and slow down gradually. A\ WARNING + Never use

Start applying brake anticipating the distance and slow down gradually. A\ WARNING + Never use the brake pedal as a footrest. + If you rest your foot on the brake pedal while driving, the braking sys- em can overheat. This increases he stopping distance and can even cause the braking system to fail. There is a risk of an accident. + Never press the brake pedal and he accelerator pedal at the same ime. If you have driven for a long time in heavy rain without braking, there may be a de- layed reaction from the brakes when brak- ing for the first time. This may also occur after the vehicle has been washed. Brake performance may become poor and 177  STARTING AND DRIVING unpredictable if brakes are wet. After driving through water or washing the underside of the vehicle, test the brakes while driving at a slow speed to see if they have maintained their normal effective- ness. If the brakes are less effective than normal, dry them by repeatedly applying the brakes while driving slowly until

less effective than normal, dry them by repeatedly applying the brakes while driving slowly until the brakes have regained their normal effec- tiveness. Braking on Downhill Gradients On long and steep gradients, you must re- duce the load on the brakes by shifting early to a lower gear. This allows you to take advantage of the engine braking ef- fect and helps avoid overheating and ex- cessive wear of the brakes. A\ WARNING * Do not shift to lower gear on a slip- pery road surface in an attempt to increase the engine’s braking effect, the drive wheels could lose their grip. 178 There is an increased danger of skidding and accidents. PARKING BRAKE Mechanical Parking Brake Mechanical parking brake acting on the rear wheels is provided on the vehicle. Parking Brake  Parking Brake Applied Parking Brake Released To apply the parking brake, hold the lever as shown in above figure with knuckle fac- ing towards vehicle front and pull the lever. A\ WARNING Do not press the button, while

fac- ing towards vehicle front and pull the lever. A\ WARNING Do not press the button, while applying parking brake. To release parking brake, hold the lever and pull the lever up slightly, press the knob with the help of middle and ring fin- ger as shown in figure and release the parking brake. Apply the parking brake properly before leaving the vehicle and release it before moving the vehicle. Mechanical parking brake acting only on the rear wheels is provided on the vehicle. STARTING AND DRIVING To apply the parking brake, pull the lever up fully. The parking brakes tell-tale illumi- nates on the instrument cluster. To release it, pull the lever up slightly, press the re- lease knob and push the lever down. Park- ing brakes tell-tale on the instrument cluster will turn ‘OFF’ when the lever is fully released. Vehicle Parking + Park the vehicle in a safe place. + Apply the parking brake. + Engage the gear shift lever in Park (P) mode. + Ensure that all window glasses are closed and

+ Engage the gear shift lever in Park (P) mode. + Ensure that all window glasses are closed and all lamps are turned ‘OFF’. + At night, put on the parking lights if re- quired. * Remove the key from the vehicle and lock the vehicle. + Block the wheels and engaged in gear if parked on a slope. 179  STARTING AND DRIVING @ NOTE When parking on a downhill gradient, place the gear lever in ‘Reverse’ posi- tion. While parking on uphill gradient, place the gear lever in the ‘1*" position. A\ WARNING Never leave children unsupervised in the parked vehicle. They could also op- erate the vehicle’s equipment. There is a risk of an accident and injury. @NOTE Do not use parking brake for braking unless unavoidable circumstances like when service brake is not working prop- erly. The braking distance is consider- ably longer and the wheels could lock. There is an increased danger of skid- ding and accidents. 180 A\ WARNING During parking, Ensure that Vehicle should not be keyed off in D mode.

accidents. 180 A\ WARNING During parking, Ensure that Vehicle should not be keyed off in D mode. Automatic Parking Brake (if avail- able) APB switch is located behind the gear shift lever replacing the conventional parking brake (Hand brake lever connected to brake mechanism by cable). APB is ap- plied by pulling up the APB switch and can be released by pushing down the APB switch which needs the vehicle to be at ig- nition/Engine ON condition. Always ensure parking brake is released and parking brake warning lamp is OFF before start o' he drive. Park brake warning lamp in clus- ier at engine running condition indicates failure in brake system and vehicle needs io be checked at TATA Service center. | his is not possible use the vehicle with ex- reme precaution until you reach service center. APB Applied Symbol APB Failure Symbol APB & AVH Switch Console  How to Apply 1. 2. @ NOTE Depress the Brake pedal. Pull APB switch upward. Kindly ensure APB indication turns on in the Cluster.

the Brake pedal. Pull APB switch upward. Kindly ensure APB indication turns on in the Cluster. Also APB is applied automatically if Engine is turned off and Gear lever is engaged to park position for Au- tomatic transmission. During parking the vehicle on Steep incline or trailer is attached kindly ensure APB can hold the vehicle be- fore leaving. STARTING AND DRIVING 1. Ignition is on or engine is running. 2. Brake pedal is depressed. Kindly ensure parking brake indication in instrument cluster is turned off after APB is released. WARNING + Do not use parking brake in vehicle running condition except for emer- gency situations like service brake failure. This can damage vehicle brake system. + Ifthe APB fails to apply, prevent ve- hicle movement by blocking the rear wheels. How to Release APB will be released only if you press the APB switch along with 181  STARTING AND DRIVING APB Gets Released Automatically For Automatic Transmission 1. In engine running condition shift the gear

Released Automatically For Automatic Transmission 1. In engine running condition shift the gear lever from Park (P) or Neutral (N) to Drive (D) or reverse (R). 2. Driver Door is closed. Seat belt is fasten. 4. Depress the accelerator pedal when gear lever is in Drive (D) or reverse (R) position. » For Manual Transmission 1. In engine running condition shift the gear lever to 1st or reverse gear. 2. Driver Door is closed. iad Seat belt is fasten. 4. Depress the accelerator pedal when gear lever is in 1st or reverse gear. even when vehicle is in neutral gear and due care needs to be taken espe- cially when the vehicle is parked in nose down condition. Make sure park brake indication in cluster is turned off after automatic release of APB. For safety you can engage APB only once even though ignition is turned off in case vehicle starts to roll away but you cannot release APB in ignition off condition. Also it is recommended to depress the brake pedal and release the APB manually when

off condition. Also it is recommended to depress the brake pedal and release the APB manually when driving downhill or backing up the vehicle. nearest authorized TATA service center. Don’t drive your vehicle with APB engaged at any time it will cause ex- cessive brake pad wear and it will damage the brake rotors. Warning Indicator Wi trying to drive off the vehicle and APB is not releasing APB ring light with text message will appear wai h APB applied if you are in cluster. In his situation depress the brake pedal and try to release APB by manually press- ing the APB switch. Very Light Click sound may be heard during engaging or releas- ing Ca APB but this sound is normal and indi- es APB is working as intended. A\ WARNING AX WARNING A\ WARNING EPB and AVH will get auto released when a Drive off situation is detected (Clutch released partially and accelera- tor pedal pressed). This is applicable 182 If parking brake warning is still ON in the cluster even though APB is getting applied

182 If parking brake warning is still ON in the cluster even though APB is getting applied and re-leased, the system needs to be checked by During Leaving your keys with Valet please inform him/her about APB. APB can malfunction if you drive with APB engaged.  For Smooth Automatic release of APB please depress accelerator pedal slowly. It is recommended to always park the vehicle with parking brake en- gaged to avoid any vehicle moment which can damage vehicle or injure pedestrians. You should not allow anyone who is not familiar with vehicle to touch parking brake buttons, unintentional park brake release can lead to in- juries. APB Malfunction Indicator Both the APB malfunction lamp and park- ing brake lamp glow in cluster for 3 secs during ignition ON then disappears. If any abnormality is there in the system the mal- function indicator stays continuously ON. In the case of any fault in the ESP system, this lamp may or may not appear. Parking brake lamp does not illuminate if the

in the ESP system, this lamp may or may not appear. Parking brake lamp does not illuminate if the APB is not engaged except the 3 secs during the ignition ON. A\ WARNING + If any abnormality is observed, APB malfunction lamp will glow. Kindly do the ignition latch and check if the same behavior is there .lf the Mal- function lamp is still there, have a check with the authorized Tata serv- ice center. + If the parking brake lamp is not glowing on application of APB, have a check with the authorized Tata service center. STARTING AND DRIVING Emergency Braking In the case of any failure in the service brake or during any other emergency situ- ations APB switch can be applied in vehi- cle running condition. APB switch needs to be pulled continuously for dynamic braking with APB. If any abnormal noise or burning smell is noticed, kindly have a check with the authorized Tata service center. 183  STARTING AND DRIVING AUTOMATIC VEHICLE HOLD (if equipped) The system eliminates the requirement

STARTING AND DRIVING AUTOMATIC VEHICLE HOLD (if equipped) The system eliminates the requirement of depressing the brake pedal continuously when the vehicle stops in between run- ning. How to Apply 1. Depress the Brake pedal. 2. Ensure seatbelt is fasten and driver's door is closed. 3. Press AVH switch. 4. Auto Hold indication turns on in the 184 Cluster which indicates AVH is turned ON and in Standby mode. 5. When the vehicle reaches the stand- still condition though brake pedal is re- leased AVH holds the vehicle and AVH indication changes the color from white to green. AVH will be released when accelerator pedal is depressed in first gear or Reverse gear (in case of Manual Transmission) and R (Reverse), D (Drive) or Manual shift mode (in case of Automatic Transmission). @ NOTE + When the vehicle is turned off keep- ing the Auto Vehicle Hold in the ON condition, Auto Vehicle Hold will gets released and APB will get au- tomatically applied. * For safety, for smooth take off de- press

gets released and APB will get au- tomatically applied. * For safety, for smooth take off de- press the accelerator pedal slowly when the AVH is active. AVH indication and warning lamps which will appear on the cluster is provided below. AUTO MESES AVH indication ON AUTO HOLD @ AVH active indication (Green color) AUTO] HOLD. color) AVH failure indication (Red  How to Disengage AVH In Ignition ON Condition depress the Auto hold switch the Auto Hold indication in white color will disappear from the cluster indicating AVH is turned off. AVH once turned ON will not be turned off automatically until it is deselected by switch input from user. Auto hold function will not become ac- tive if + Driver Seat bet is not buckled. * Driver Door is not closed properly. + APB is in applied condition. For end user safety Auto hold will shift au- tomatically to APB in below conditions: 1. Vehicle is in standstill for more than 3 minutes. 2. Gear leaver shift from any of Drive (D), Reverse(R) to Park

standstill for more than 3 minutes. 2. Gear leaver shift from any of Drive (D), Reverse(R) to Park (P) Position for AT Transmission vehicles. 3. If you turn off the Engine /Ignition in standstill condition. 4. Vehicle is standing on steep slope. In above conditions AVH indication will change from Green to white and APB in- dication will turn on in the cluster. A\ WARNING If any abnormality is present in the sys- tem, AVH malfunction lamp in amber colour will glow which is amber in colour. Kindly do the ignition latch of 30 seconds and check if the same behav- iour is there. If the Malfunction lamp is still there, get your parking brake sys- tem checked with the authorized Tata dealer. STARTING AND DRIVING Precautions During Vehicle Towing with APB Before towing please ensure APB is not engaged as it can damage Brake pads and Brake components during vehicle tow- ing. 1. APB should be manually released if battery of the vehicle is healthy during towing and Ignition should be kept in ON

released if battery of the vehicle is healthy during towing and Ignition should be kept in ON state till vehicle reaches to service centre. 2. If vehicle battery is not in healthy state during vehicle towing external power is required for manual re-lease of APB and ignition should be ON till vehicle reaches to service center or 3. If it is not possible to keep the ignition ON till vehicle reaches to service cen- ter then keep APB button pressed in release position, Brake paddle pressed and turn off the ignition this will avoid auto engagement of APB during switching off the ignition. 185  STARTING AND DRIVING @ NOTE + In case of vehicle is power down APB cannot be released, External supply or Jump start is necessary to release the APB. * It is not recommended to touch/re- move any component of Rear calipers to disengage the APB as it will damage the caliper Compo- nents permanently. 186 REVERSE PARK ASSIST (if avail- able) The user can view the Park assist screen by selecting this

186 REVERSE PARK ASSIST (if avail- able) The user can view the Park assist screen by selecting this feature in Infotainment display to see any obstacle behind the ve- hicle while parking. The system also displays the Park assist screen when the reverse gear is engaged. It provides audio and visual information through the vehicles infotainment system / Buzzer. Always look at surrounding be- fore initiating reverse parking for kids, pets and elderly people moving around the ve- hicle. Variant where infotainment display is not present and audio warning is given through a buzzer, on activating the Re- verse Park Assist system, a tone will be played within first two seconds to indicate the proper functioning of the sys-tem. After these two seconds, normal functioning of the system will continue. If no tone is heard for first two seconds, it shall mean that RPAS system is faulty. The owner should, in that case, go to the nearest dealer for rectification.  Reverse Park Assist with Sensor

should, in that case, go to the nearest dealer for rectification.  Reverse Park Assist with Sensor Operation The reverse park assist system can also be activated manually through infotain- ment screen. Display will be seen on info- tainment screen. Turning the ignition ‘OFF’ ‘while the Park assist feature in running would dis- able the feature. STARTING AND DRIVING 187  STARTING AND DRIVING Audio Warning Reverse Park Assist Limitations Audio warning may come from Infotainment system speaker or through Buzzer, depend- _— Reverse Park Assist system is not a colli- ing on vehicle model and configuration. sion avoiding system. It is solely the Approx. Distance Range |. 7 7 7 driver’s responsibility to park the vehicle Visual Information safely. From Bumper (in cm) All six zones are high- Reverse Park Assist feature works on ultra 25-40 lighted (Red, Green and Continuous Beep sound echo technology, due to which per- Yellow zones) formance is not guaranteed in following Bottom four zones

due to which per- Yellow zones) formance is not guaranteed in following Bottom four zones are scenarios: 41-80 highlighted (Yellow and Fast Beep + If the object has a sharp edge surface, Green zones) where surface may divert echoes from sensor reception. If object is mesh fence made up of thin wires, where echoes can’t be given by the surface. Bottom two zones are high- 81-120 lighted (Green zones) Slow Beep . + Fast moving objects passes in the sen- sor field of detection, where echoes are not processed by the system. + If object is made/covered by foam or sponge or snow where ultrasonic sound signals are absorbed. 188  Objects close to the rear bumper can go undetected by the Reverse Park Assist field of detection. Driver should use extreme caution while parking the vehicle. height of the bumper is changed due 0 alteration to the suspension or other causes. the sensor areas are extremely hot rom direct sunlight or cold due to reezing weather. Sensors are covered by a hand, sticker,

hot rom direct sunlight or cold due to reezing weather. Sensors are covered by a hand, sticker, accessory, etc. ultrasonic noise is present around Vehicle due to other vehicle sensors, horn, engine, air braking system (large vehicles), Exhaust Fans, Wireless ransmitters or mobile phones. the vehicle speed exceeds 10 km/h, he system will not warn you even hough objects are detected, error message ‘Vehicle Speed is high, drive slowly!’ will appear. Driving on uneven road surfaces e.g. Gravel, unpaved roads, Artificial Speed Breakers, or gradient. STARTING AND DRIVING + Poles of square/rectangle cross sec- tion might not be detected at vehicle’s edge. AX WARNING Due to any reason, if the sensor gets misaligned or loses its intended fitment position, contact your dealer for refit- ment. @ NOTE Turning the ignition ‘OFF’ ‘while the Park assist feature in running would dis- able the feature. AX WARNING 0 to 25 cm obstacle detection perform- ance is not guaranteed due to ultrasonic sensor

AX WARNING 0 to 25 cm obstacle detection perform- ance is not guaranteed due to ultrasonic sensor technology limitation. 189  STARTING AND DRIVING Reverse Park Assist System Preven- which causes wrong visual informa- Park Assist Malfunction Indications tive Maintenance/cleaning tion on display. In case of damage, In case of Reverse park assist system 1. Regularly clean the Sensors and keep make sure that, Reverse Park Assist malfunctions, fault screen may appear on them free from dust, ice, mud, water, sensors are fitted properly at the in- the infotainment system. chewing gum etc. for proper working of tended location. Reason for this fault may be the system. Use a smooth cloth for . se cleaning In case of uneven road conditions or 1. Body Control Module Failure . up-hill or downhill conditions, do not . 2. Do not use water at high pressure for depend on Reverse Park Assist aid. 2. Sensor Malfunction cleaning the sensor. + Do not apply any kind of force on 3. Partner components such

Malfunction cleaning the sensor. + Do not apply any kind of force on 3. Partner components such as Infotain- 3. Do not cover the sensors. This will in- the reverse park assist sensors. mont music system, Instrument Clus- i er failure terrupt park assist performance. + Always use rear view mirrors along 4. Do not remove mud, snow on the sen- with Reverse Park Assist for con- sors using stick or hard material. Use firming safety of the rear and the normal water and soft cloth. surrounding conditions. A\ WARNING + In low light conditions, the screen may darken or image may appear faint. + Ifthe tire sizes are changed, the po- sition of the fixed guidelines dis- played on the screen may change. + In case of damage of the rear por- tion of the vehicle, Reverse Park As- sist sensors position may change 190  REAR PARK ASSIST WITH CAM- ERA (if available) Rear View Camera is a visual reverse guiding system. When reversing or park- ing, make sure that there are no persons, animals or objects in

system. When reversing or park- ing, make sure that there are no persons, animals or objects in the area in which you are reversing. Three color moving grid lines guide the user to understand the rear object dis- tance exactly. The grid lines are updated by the motion of the vehicle as well as by the steering input. Guidelines will help you to rightly find the sufficient parking place, helps you to keep the vehicle straight, rear object proximity indication etc. @ NOTE Turning the ignition ‘OFF’ ‘while the Park assist feature in running would dis- able the feature. STARTING AND DRIVING Normal ‘Wide ZOOM, Activation Reverse Gear This system will start, if reverse gear is en- gaged, or park assist button (if available) is pressed or manual activation is done through Infotainment screen. Deactivation System will deactivate, if reverse gear is disengaged, or park assist button (if avail- able) is pressed. If started through infotainment, the system can be stopped using a cross button on

is pressed. If started through infotainment, the system can be stopped using a cross button on in- fotainment screen. 191  STARTING AND DRIVING Understanding Guidelines Indication aes Please Reverse SiS verse eaiesuny ! Static guidelines Green Yellow Red Dynamic guidelines 192 Green Line Indicates, if rear object is in this colored zone, you have to be cautious. Still you can go backward safely. Yellow Line Indicates, if rear objects are in this colored zone, you have to take utmost care. How- ever, objects fall in this zone, may not hit vehicle. Red Line Indicates, if rear objects are in this colored zone, you have to stop the vehicle and not allowed to go back-ward. If you still go backward, your vehicle will hit the object. Do’s And Don’t As the camera is, IP protected, do not detach, disassemble or modify in any manner from the actual position. This will show required visual information in display. Do not use camera when tailgate is open. If tailgate is open, visual infor- mation

in display. Do not use camera when tailgate is open. If tailgate is open, visual infor- mation may not be the actual rear view of the vehicle & system will warn with message ‘Tail Gate Open, Please close. When the camera is operated under fluorescent lights, sodium light or mer- cury light etc., illuminated areas on the lens may appear to flicker in the dis- play. Do not attach any advertisement or styling or any kind of stickers on top of camera. If this happens, camera can- not provide you the visual image and may damage camera. Do not add any accessory, which will obstruct camera field of view.  Cleaning Camera 1. Due to environmental reasons, dust, mud or fog may accumulate on the camera lens. So regularly clean the camera lens. Use water to clean the camera lens. Do not use extreme cold or hot water. Rapid changes in temperature may brittle the camera lens. Do not apply High Pressure water for cleaning. Wipe the camera lens with soft cloth. Do not use hard cloth or material to

water for cleaning. Wipe the camera lens with soft cloth. Do not use hard cloth or material to wipe the camera lens. This will cause scratches on the camera, and leads to deteriorated visual image on the dis- play. Do not apply organic solvent, car wax, window cleaner or glass coat to clean he camera. If this is applied, wipe it off as soon as possible. Do not apply heavy force on lens, while cleaning. Do not remove mud, snow on the cam- era lens using stick or hard material. Use normal water and soft cloth. AX WARNING The camera uses fish eye lens. So the size of the objects or in the dis- play may differ from the actual size and distances in low light condi- tions, the screen may darken or image may appear faint. If the tire sizes are changed, the po- sition of the fixed guidelines dis- played on the screen may change. During rainy conditions, image may get obscured. In such conditions, do not depend on camera view. The camera used in the vehicle, may not reproduce the same color of

do not depend on camera view. The camera used in the vehicle, may not reproduce the same color of the real object. The camera used in the vehicle, may not reproduce the same color of the real object. In case of damage of the rear por- tion of the vehicle, camera position may change. Which causes wrong visual information on display. In case of damage, make sure that, camera is fitted properly at the in STARTING AND DRIVING tended location. In case of uneven road conditions or up-hill or downhill conditions, do not depend on rear view camera park aid. Do not apply any kind of force on the camera. Always use rear View mirrors along with Rear View Camera for confirm- ing the safety of the rear and the surrounding conditions. High humidity and variation in ambi- ent temperature may result into con- densation inside the camera lens, which may further result into degra- dation of camera video feed on the screen. It is recommended that not to rely on camera video feed for parking assistance

feed on the screen. It is recommended that not to rely on camera video feed for parking assistance in such scenario. This phenome-non is temporary and will be automatically recovered with reduction in humidity and less vari- ation in ambient temperature. The area displayed by the rear view camera is limited. The camera does 193  STARTING AND DRIVING not display objects that are close to or below the bumper, underneath the vehicle, or objects out of the camera’s field of view. The area dis- played on the screen may vary ac- cording to vehicle orientation or road conditions. Rear View Camera System Precau- tions Area Displayed on Screen The rear view camera system displays an image of the view from the bumper of the rear area of the vehicle. To adjust the image on the rear view monitor system screen. 194 iL Corners of bumper a | The area displayed on the screen may vary according to vehicle orientation conditions. * Objects, which are close to either cor- ner of the bumper or under the

orientation conditions. * Objects, which are close to either cor- ner of the bumper or under the bumper, cannot be seen on the screen. + The camera uses a special lens. The distance of the image that appears on the screen differs from the actual dis- tance. The monitor may not display items that are located higher than the camera field of view. When the Ground Behind the Vehicle Slopes Up Sharply  The distance guidelines will appear to be closer to the vehicle than the actual dis- tance. Because of this, objects will appear to be farther away than they actually are. In the same way, there will be a margin of error between the guidelines and the ac- tual distance/course on the road. When the Ground Behind the Vehicle Slopes Down Sharply STARTING AND DRIVING The distance guidelines will appear to be further from the vehicle than the actual dis- ance. Because of this, objects will appear to be closer than they actually are. In the same way, there will be a margin of error be- tween the

to be closer than they actually are. In the same way, there will be a margin of error be- tween the guidelines and the actual dis- ance/course on the road. 195  STARTING AND DRIVING When Any Part of the Vehicle Sags A margin of error When any part of the vehicle sags due to he number of passengers or the distribu- ion of the load, there is a margin of error between the fixed guide lines on the screen and the actual distance/course on he road. 196 When Approaching Three-dimensional Objects The distance guidelines are displayed ac- cording to flat surfaced objects (such as the road). It is not possible to determine the position of three-dimensional objects (such as vehicles) using the distance guidelines. When approaching a three-di- mensional object. a. Distance Guidelines Visually check the surroundings and the area behind the vehicle. On the screen, i appears that a truck is parked at point B. However, in reality if you back up to poin A, you will hit the truck. On the screen, i

at point B. However, in reality if you back up to poin A, you will hit the truck. On the screen, i appears that Ais closest and C is furthes away. However, in reality, the distance to Aand C is the same, and B is farther than Aand C.  STARTING AND DRIVING Visually check the surroundings and the b. Vehicle Width Guidelines area behind the vehicle. In the case shown below, the truck appears to be outside of the vehicle width guidelines and the vehi- cle does not look as if it hits the truck. However, the rear body of the truck may actually cross over the vehicle width guidelines. In reality if you back up as guided by the vehicle width guidelines, the vehicle may hit the truck. DRIVE MODE (if available) Drive mode selection switches are pro- vided on center console for activation. Press the switch to select the mode. ‘ECO ‘7, ‘CITY’ and ‘SPORT’ drive modes are provided. These modes can be used to adjust engine characteristics and vehi- cle performance in line with desired re- quirement.

used to adjust engine characteristics and vehi- cle performance in line with desired re- quirement. 197  STARTING AND DRIVING CITY Increased engine Torque and Power output for BAL- ali ANCED performance. It is ony default mode. ECO Optimum engine Torque and Power output for FUEL EFFICIENT per- formance. Produce more torque from engine. When vehicle is in ECO or SPORT mode, by pressing current mode switch again, mode will switch to CITY mode. 198 TERRAIN RESPONSE MODE (if available) Rotate the knob clockwise to select the terrain mode. 1. Normal Road Mode In this Mode System will adapt to the pre- vailing surface conditions automatically and enables control settings based on the condition sensed. This mode is designed to react more sen- sitively to support a regular driver to utilize available physical limit. Vehicle performance optimized to support all surface condition. Almost no lateral forces allowed, Braking System, Traction System is more focused on Vehicle stabil- ity to provide

forces allowed, Braking System, Traction System is more focused on Vehicle stabil- ity to provide better driving confidence even to amateur users. 2. Wet Mode When road conditions are no more Nor- mal, wet mode delivers confidence without compromising driving pleasure. Wet mode automatically engages advance traction, reduces throttle response, which in turn provides greater confidence without com- promising safety of occupants in slippery conditions. The wet mode is designed for driving in the rain. It is characterized by having bet- ter traction and handling so you can effec- tively and safely drive during these conditions. @ NOTE If you have driven for a long time in wet road without braking, there may be a delayed reaction from the brakes when braking for the first time. You have to depress the brake pedal more firmly.  Maintain a greater distance from the ve- hicle in front. 3. Rough Road Mode Rough Road Mode optimizes the vehicle behavior for driving over rough road or other

Rough Road Mode Rough Road Mode optimizes the vehicle behavior for driving over rough road or other unyielding obstacles. Braking performance is also tuned to sup- port Rough road surfaces as compared to other drive modes. System allows improved rough road per- formance to be more easily accessible to all customers specially novice or inexperi- enced user. @ NOTE Cautiously drive the vehicle on a rough road or off the road. Otherwise, the tires and wheels may be damaged. After driving those areas, inspect the tires and wheels. 4. Electronic Stability Program (ESP)(if available) ESP monitors driving stability and traction. If ESP detects that the vehicle is deviating from the direction desired by the driver, one or more wheels are braked to stabilize the vehicle. The engine output is also modified to keep the vehicle on the desired course within physical limits. ESP assists the driver when pulling away on wet or slippery roads. ESP can also stabi- lize the vehicle during braking and

when pulling away on wet or slippery roads. ESP can also stabi- lize the vehicle during braking and accel- eration. Activate the ESP feature by pressing on the center console. STARTING AND DRIVING 5. Hill Descent Control (HDC) (if avail- able) While driving down on a hill slope, activate the HDC fea- ture by pressing on the center console. D HDC provides a smooth and controlled hill descent by enabling the vehicle to control the speed of each wheel. The system will automatically apply the brakes to slow down to the desired vehicle speed. Cruise control +/-buttons or Brake and accelera- tor pedal can adjust the speed to a com- fortable level. HDC interventions will be automatically disabled once the descent is complete and vehicle is on levelled road. Non-zero speed less than 35 kmph would be re- quired to turn ON HDC. A speed greater than 40 kmph will end all active HDC con- trol and switch HDC to standby mode. Once the vehicle speed is lower than the specified threshold of 40 kmph

switch HDC to standby mode. Once the vehicle speed is lower than the specified threshold of 40 kmph HDC be- comes activated again whenever required (No press of HDC button is required).HDC is permanently switched off if the vehicle 199  STARTING AND DRIVING speed exceeds 60 kmph and Active state on HDC switch will go off automatically. HDC works in both Neutral and in Gear forward and reverse position. While driving down a hill, the engine brak- ing should be used by shifting into a lower gear. Do not drive in neutral gear or switch off the engine. A\ WARNING HDC cannot take account of road, weather, traffic and tyre conditions. You are always responsible for keeping con- trol of the vehicle and for assessing whether the downhill gradient can be managed. 200  EMERGENCY EQUIPMENT You should be familiar with the location of the emergency equipment provided in the vehicle and how to use it. Check this equipment periodically and en- sure that they are in proper working con- dition and

it. Check this equipment periodically and en- sure that they are in proper working con- dition and stowed at their locations. First Aid Kit The first aid kit is kept inside the glove box compartment. The kit contains items that can be used in case of minor injuries only. @ NOTE Check contents of the first aid kit peri- odically and replenish consumed or ex- pired items. EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Tool Kit, Jack and Spare Wheel Spare Wheel Tool kit, Jack are provided in rear boot. 1. Spare wheel removal spanner 2. Advance Warning Triangle 3. Puncture repair kit 4. Jack Handle 201  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Advance Warning Triangle An advance warning triangle is kept on the tool tray in the luggage compartment. Use advance warning triangle to warn the approaching traffic in case of vehicle breakdown or during emergency, where your vehicle could become a potential traf- fic hazard. Press hazard warning switch, all turn sig- nal lamps will start blinking. 202 Keep the

fic hazard. Press hazard warning switch, all turn sig- nal lamps will start blinking. 202 Keep the warning triangle at an approxi- mate distance of 50-150 m behind your vehicle in the same lane of traffic. The re- flecting side of the triangle should face the oncoming traffic and it should be free from any obstacles. NOTE After using the warning triangle tie it firmly and keep it inside the bag to avoid rattling noise. Hazard Warning Switch Press the hazard warning switch to acti- vate the hazard warning. All the turn signal lamps will flash simultaneously. To turn OFF, press the switch again. Use the hazard warning to warn the traffic during emergency parking or when your vehicle could become a traffic hazard. The hazard warning lamps can operate even if the ignition is switched off.  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE SPARE WHEEL REMOVAL PROCESS + To remove the spare wheel, open the tail gate. * Open the cover and take out the ad- vance warning triangle. + Insert the spare wheel

tail gate. * Open the cover and take out the ad- vance warning triangle. + Insert the spare wheel removal span- ner and rotate anticlockwise to un- screw the retaining bolt. * Open the flap with the help of screw driver provided in tool kit for accessing to spare wheel removal retaining bolt. 203  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE + As the retaining bolt gets loosened, the + Remove the holding bracket from the Spare Wheel Fitment Process spare wheel lowers down as shown. spare wheel and get the spare whee + Engage the holding brackets in spare separated. wheel. + Insert the spare wheel removal span- ner and rotate clockwise to lift the spare wheel. + Tighten the bolt until you heard the ‘Tak’ noise. Do not overtight. @ NOTE While stowing the spare wheel, en-sure that winch bracket is properly engaged in wheel slot. 204  IN CASE OF FLAT TYRE Reduce vehicle speed gradually, Avoid sudden steering movement or braking. Pay attention to the traffic conditions as you do so. Switch on the

steering movement or braking. Pay attention to the traffic conditions as you do so. Switch on the hazard warning lamps. Stop the vehicle on solid, non-slippery and level ground, as far away as pos- sible from traffic. Use the Jack on level, hard ground. Avoid changing the wheel on uphill and downhill slopes. Chock the wheels, if the deflated wheel needs to be changed on slope / ghat area. If possible, bring the front wheels into the straight-ahead position. Secure the vehicle against rolling away. Set the parking brake firmly and shift into “R” (Reverse) gear on level ground and while vehicle is in downhill posi- tion. When the vehicle is in uphill position, shift the gear in first gear. EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE * Switch off the engine. * Keep advance warning triangle at a suitable distance behind the vehicle as an indication of breakdown. * Close all the doors. * Chock the wheels. A\ WARNING If you drive with a flat tyre, there is a risk of the following hazards: + A flat

A\ WARNING If you drive with a flat tyre, there is a risk of the following hazards: + A flat tyre affects the ability to steer or brake the vehicle. + You could lose control of the vehi- cle. * Continued driving with a flat tyre will permanently damage the tyre and cause excessive heat buildup and possibly a fire. There is a risk of an accident. Changing Flat Tyre Remove the center hub cap/wheel cover in case of steel wheel rim (if available). Loosen the nuts (as indicated) on the wheel in diagonal sequence. Do not un- screw the nuts completely before jacking the vehicle. Wheel nut removal + The jack is designed only to raise and hold the vehicle for a short time while a wheel is being changed. It is 205  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE 206 not suited for performing mainte- nance work under the vehicle. Use the jack on level, hard ground. Avoid changing the wheel on uphill and downhill slopes. Chock the wheels, if the deflated wheel needs to be changed on slope / ghat area. Before

slopes. Chock the wheels, if the deflated wheel needs to be changed on slope / ghat area. Before raising the vehicle, secure it from rolling away by applying the parking brake. Shift the gear into ‘R’ (reverse) on level ground and while vehicle is in downhill position, and shift the gear in first gear when vehicle is in uphill position. Chock the wheels. Do not use wooden blocks or similar objects as a jack underlay. Do not place your hands and feet or lie under the raised vehicle when it is supported by a jack. Do not run the engine when the ve- hicle is supported by the jack and never allow passengers to remain in the vehicle. + Do not open or close a door or the tailgate when the vehicle is raised. Assemble the Jack handle and wheel spanner (as shown in jacking fig). Position the jack vertically and raise it by turning the jack handle clockwise until the jack sits completely on jacking point and the base of the jack lies evenly on the ground. Jacking Point Location on Vehicle The

point and the base of the jack lies evenly on the ground. Jacking Point Location on Vehicle The jacking points are indicated below the door of the vehicle (Refer jacking point lo- cation). Jacking point location  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE WARNING If you do not position the jack correctly at the appropriate jacking point of the vehicle, the jack could tip over with the vehicle raised. There is a risk of injury. Jack may also get damage. Continue to raise the jack slowly and smoothly until the tyre clears the ground. Do not raise the vehicle more than neces- sary. Jacking front wheel Jacking rear wheel Remove wheel mounting nuts with the help of wheel spanner and take out flat tyre. @ NOTE Do not place wheel nuts in sand or ona dirty surface. Do not apply oil or grease on it. Roll the spare wheel into position and align the holes in the wheel studs. Install wheel nuts with their cone shaped end facing the wheel. Tighten each nut by 207  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE hand

cone shaped end facing the wheel. Tighten each nut by 207  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE hand until the wheel is securely seated on the hub. Lower the jack completely then tighten the wheel nuts one by one using wheel span- ner. Press fit the wheel cover back /center hub cap back (if available). Restore all the tools and jack at their re- spective location. Place the flat tyre at spare wheel location. Check and correct the tyre pressure and wheel nuts tightness of the changed wheel at nearest authorised service station. Get the flat tyre repaired at the earliest. A\ WARNING Do not jack the vehicle under rear axle. PUNCTURE REPAIR KIT (if avail- able) Introduction WARNING Compliance with these instructions is vital to ensure vehicle safety. Non-com- pliance with these instructions means risking tire damage, which can affect vehicle handling and lead to loss of ve- hicle control. This may result in serious injury or death. Inform all other users of the vehicle if standard items for

may result in serious injury or death. Inform all other users of the vehicle if standard items for dealing with a puncture (e.g. spare tire) have been replaced by the Puncture repair Kit. The Puncture repair Kit seals most tire punctures to restore temporarily mobility. Recommended use only for passenger car ground tires only and vehicle tire inflation pressure up to 300 kPa (3 bar, 43 psi). The system consists of a compressor and a sealant, and serves to effectively and con- veniently seal punctures in car tires caused, for example, by nails or similar foreign objects with a diameter of up to % “(6 mm). Depending on the type and extent of tire damage, some tires can only be partially sealed or not sealed at all. Loss of tire pressure can affect vehicle handling, lead- ing to loss of vehicle control. Ob-serve the following rules when using the Puncture repair Kit: * Drive with caution and avoid making sudden steering or driving maneuvers , Maneuvers, especially if the vehicle is

and avoid making sudden steering or driving maneuvers , Maneuvers, especially if the vehicle is heavily loaded or you are towing a trailer. + The system will provide you with an emergency temporary repair, enabling you to continue your journey to the next vehicle or tire dealer, or to drive a maximum distance of 200 km (120 miles). + Do not exceed a maximum speed of 80 km/h (50 mph). * Keep the Puncture repair Kit out of the reach of children. * Once the Puncture repair Kit has been used for a temporary tire repair, the functionality of the TPMS module (if  applicable) shall be checked by an ex- pert and replaced if necessary. These instructions provide a step-by-step explanation of how to use the Puncture re- pair Kit to temporarily repair a tire punc- ture. Please read the section on “How to pro- ceed in the event of a tire puncture”. AX WARNING Do not use the Puncture repair Kit if the ire has already been damaged as a re- sult of being driven underinflated. Do not try to seal

if the ire has already been damaged as a re- sult of being driven underinflated. Do not try to seal damage other than that located within the visible tread of the ire. Do not try to seal damage to the ire’s sidewall. EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Location In Vehicle In lugguage compartment Puncture Repair Kit Removal Process To access the puncture repair kit open the tailgate. Open the cover and take out the Punc- ture Repair kit. 209  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Step ~ eS Z ¢ <i) | sei Gite 210  Instructions On How To Use The Puncture Repair Kit Safely Use product with original vehicle ground tires only. Only use the Puncture repair Kit with ubeless tires. f used for other than its intended pur- pose, the Puncture repair Kit may cause severe accident or injury due to he fact that compressed air can act as an explosive or propellant. Park your vehicle at the roadside so hat you do not obstruct the flow of traf- fic and you are able to use the Punc- ure repair Kit without

you do not obstruct the flow of traf- fic and you are able to use the Punc- ure repair Kit without being in danger. Engage the hand brake, even if you have parked on a level road, to ensure hat the vehicle will not move. Do not attempt to remove foreign ob- jects like nails or screws penetrating he tire. Leave them as they are. Leave the engine running while the Puncture repair Kit is in use, but not if he vehicle is in an enclosed or poorly ventilated area. EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Never leave the Puncture repair Kit un- attended while in use. Do not keep the compressor operating for more than 10 minutes otherwise there is a risk of it over-heating. Replace the sealant bottle with a new one before the expiration date is reached (see bottle label). In case that the sealant is expired the functionality cannot be fully guaranteed. Only use Inform all other users of the vehicle that the tire has been temporarily sealed with the Puncture repair Kit and make them aware of the

that the tire has been temporarily sealed with the Puncture repair Kit and make them aware of the special driving conditions to be observed. A\ WARNING Need to drain fluid from tire before re- pair. original Puncture re-pair Kit bottles which are pressure resistant. How To Proceed In The Event Of Tyre Puncture You can temporarily repair a tire puncture in two steps. First pump the tire sealant and air into the tire (see Step 1). Immediately thereafter, drive a short distance (3-10 km / 2-6 miles) in order to distribute the sealant in the tire. After that, check the tire pressure and pump more air into the tire if necessary (see Step 2). Then you can proceed to drive with caution for a maximum of 200 km (120 miles) and at a m: speed of 80 km/h (50 mph). distance axi-mum Step 1 :pumping The Tyre Sealant And Air Into The Tyre 1. Peel off the decal denoting the maxi- mum permissible speed (80 km/h | 50 mph) from the casing and attach it to the edge of the windscreen as shown on the

(80 km/h | 50 mph) from the casing and attach it to the edge of the windscreen as shown on the picture. 2. Take the hose and power plug with cable out of the Puncture repair Kit casing. Unscrew the orange cap of the bottle connector. 3. Unscrew the red cap of the sealant bottle. (Shake sealant bottle well be- fore use. 211  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE A\ WARNING A\ WARNING @ NOTE Leave the bottle seal intact. Screwing the bottle onto the bottle holder will pierce the seal of the bottle. Avoid skin contact with the sealant which contains natural rubber latex. Do not open pres- sure “air release” valve. Please use pro- tective glove for safety purpose. 4. Screw the bottle clockwise firmly against the slight resistance of the notches onto the sealing gasket of the bottle connector until it is screwed tight. 5. Remove the valve cap from the dam- aged tire. Pull the protective cap off the end of the hose and screw the hose firmly onto the valve of the damaged tire. Make sure that

the end of the hose and screw the hose firmly onto the valve of the damaged tire. Make sure that the compressor switch is switched to “0” and the pres- sure “air release” valve is closed. 6. Insert power plug into the 12 vol power socket connection. 7. Start the engine (only if the vehicle is outdoors or in a well ventilated area). 212 Asphyxiation may occur if the engine is allowed to run in a non-ventilated or poorly ventilated area (e.g. inside a building) 8. Press compressor switch to “I”. @NOTE Check the sidewall of the tire prior to in- flation. If there are any cracks, bumps or similar damage, do not attempt to in- flate the tire. Do not stand directly be- side the tire while the compressor is pumping. Watch the sidewall of the tire. If any cracks, bumps or similar damage appear, turn off the compressor and let the air out by means of the pressure “air release” valve. In this case, do not con- tinue to use the tire. When pumping in the sealant through the tire valve, the

case, do not con- tinue to use the tire. When pumping in the sealant through the tire valve, the pressure may rise up to 500 kPa (5 bar, 73 psi) but will drop again after about 30 seconds. 9. Inflate the tire within about 10 minutes ‘0 an inflation pressure of minimum 180 kPa, (1.8 bar, and 26 psi) anda maximum of 300 kPa (3 bar, 43 psi). 10. Switch off the compressor briefly in order to read the actual tire pressure tom the pressure gauge. A\ WARNING If heavy vibrations, unsteady steering behavior or noises should occur while driving, reduce your speed and drive with caution to a place where it is safe for you to stop the vehicle. Recheck the tire and its pressure. If the tire pressure is less than 130 kPa (1.3 bar, 19 psi) or if there are any visible cracks, bumps or similar damage on the side wall, do not continue to use the tire!  11, 12. Once a tire inflation pressure of at least 180 kPa (1.8 bar, 26 psi) has been reached. * Switch the compressor to “0”. + Pull the power plug

180 kPa (1.8 bar, 26 psi) has been reached. * Switch the compressor to “0”. + Pull the power plug from the 12 volt power socket connection. + Slowly unscrew the hose from the tire valve (sealant residues may escape from the hose) and put the protective cap back onto the hose. + Leave the bottle in the holder. This avoids unexpected leakage of sealant residue. + Make sure the Puncture repair Kit, the cap of the bottle and the orange cap are stored safely, but are still easily ac- cessible, in the vehicle. The kit will be needed again when you check the tire pressure. 13, 14. Immediately start and drive for about 3-10 km (2-6 miles) so that the sealant can seal the damaged area. Do not drive for more than 10 min and not any faster than 80 km/h (50 mph) (observe the decal indicating the permissible speed). EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE A\ WARNING If heavy vibrations, unsteady steering behavior or noises should occur while driving, reduce your speed and drive with caution to a place

behavior or noises should occur while driving, reduce your speed and drive with caution to a place where it is safe for you to stop the vehicle. Recheck the tire and its pressure. If the tire pressure is less than 130 kPa (1.3 bar, 19 psi) or if there are any visible cracks, bumps or similar damage on the side wall, do not continue to use the tire! Step 2 Checking The Tyre Pressure 15. Stop the vehicle after driving about 3-10 km (2-6 miles). Check and, where necessary, adjust the pressure of the dam- aged tire. Remove the protective cap from the end of the hose. Screw the hose firmly onto the valve of the damaged tire. 16. Read the tire pressure from the pres- sure gauge. If the pressure of the sealant-filled tire is 130 kPa (1.3 bar, 19 psi) or more, it must now be adjusted to the pressure specified for your vehicle (Refer sticker on vehicle). A\ WARNING If the tire check shows that the pressure of the sealant-filled tire is less than 130 kPa (1.3 bar, 19 psi) or if there are any

the pressure of the sealant-filled tire is less than 130 kPa (1.3 bar, 19 psi) or if there are any visible cracks, bumps or similar tire damage on the side wall, you must not continue to use that tire. + Make sure that the compressor switch is switched off to “O”. + Insert the power plug into the 12 volt power socket connection. + Start the engine (only if the vehicle is outdoors or in a well ventilated area). A\ WARNING Asphyxiation may occur if the engine is allowed to run in a non-ventilated or poorly ventilated area (e.g. inside a building ) 17,18. Switch the compressor on to “I” and pump the tire up to the specified tire pressure within max. 10 minutes. 213  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE @ NOTE tective cap of the hose. @ NOTE 7 Lo + Leave the bottle in the holder and store . Compressor unit we can use for filling the Puncture repair Kit away safely in Remember that emergency roadside the air & checking the pressure of the the vehicle trunk. tire repair kits only provide

roadside the air & checking the pressure of the the vehicle trunk. tire repair kits only provide temporary normal tyre. mobility. Regulation concerning tire re- WARNING pair after usage of Puncture Repair Kit . . may differ from country to country. You AWS Using) tind SEEN Yew HERY chive should consult a tire specialist for ad- o 7 . 3 no faster than 80 km/h (50 mph), and an aS | en — the damaged tire must be replaced as , quickly as possible (with in a maximum . driving distance of 200 km (120 miles)). ZA\ WARNING + Switch the compressor off and check Y 6 matt ti to drive if h a tient iis) ste por © a pete Before driving, ensure tire is adjusted to is too high, deflate the tire to the spec- wl De AelAiS) — WS Sater er avior recommended inflation pressure as in- ified pressure using the pressure “air ete eeiule Mlel(elee tA ull telah las dicated on vehicle placard. Monitor tire release” valve. pressure until sealed tire is replaced. 19, 20. Drive to the nearest workshop to . A + Rest

valve. pressure until sealed tire is replaced. 19, 20. Drive to the nearest workshop to . A + Rest of the remaining sealant in the get the damaged tyre repaired and if the Te eed as described above from point hose might leak out when opening _ tyre repair is not possible, tyre should be pressure “air release” valve or taking _ removed from the car. Before the tire is re- off the protective cap of the hose. moved from the rim, inform your tire dealer Please use protective glove for safety _ that the tire contains sealant. Sealant de- purpose. posits in a used hose may impair proper * Once you have inflated the tire to its | function of the Puncture repair Kit. Both correct tire pressure, switch off the _ the sealant bottle and the hose need to be compressor, pull the plug out of the replaced together after using the Puncture socket, unscrew the hose, fasten the repair Kit. tire valve cap and put back on the pro- 214 the tire pressure again. If tire pressure New sealant and replacement

and put back on the pro- 214 the tire pressure again. If tire pressure New sealant and replacement parts can be purchased from your authorized repair shop or dealer. Sealant bottles can be dis- posed with house-hold waste.  JUMP LEAD STARTING Use only a battery of same rating & capac- ity to jump start your vehicle. Position the booster battery close to your vehicle so that the jump leads will reach both batter- ies. When using a battery of another vehicle, do not let the vehicles touch. Apply the parking brake firmly and keep the gearshift lever in neutral. Turn off all vehicle accessories, except those necessary for safety like hazard warning lamps. If your vehicle is equipped with Battery sensor, then do not connect your jump start cable lead directly on the Sensor sur- face. Connect only on the negative cable surface as shown on the image. After jump start event, IAC function will be restored only when the Vehicle is parked in idle for 3-4 Hours. EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE

restored only when the Vehicle is parked in idle for 3-4 Hours. EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Make jump lead connections as follows: Connect one end of the first jump lead to the positive (+) terminal of the dis- charged battery. Connect the other end to the positive (+) terminal of the booster battery. Connect one end of the second jump lead to the negative (—) terminal of the booster battery. Make the final connection (other end of the negative terminal) to an unpainted, heavy metal part (i.e. engine mounting stud/nut) of the vehicle of discharged battery. Connect the cable in numerical order & disconnect in reverse order. be Booster Battery Discharge Battery Unpainted Metal (Engine) part of vehicle with discharged battery Start the engine of the vehicle with the discharged battery. Before disconnecting the jumper ca- bles, let the engine run for several min- utes. If the booster battery you are using is fitted to another vehicle, start the en- gine of the vehicle with the

battery you are using is fitted to another vehicle, start the en- gine of the vehicle with the booster bat- tery. Run the engine at moderate speed. Remove the jump leads in the exact reverse order in which you connected them. 215  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE @ NOTE Do not disconnect the discharged bat- tery from the vehicle. A\ WARNING Never connect the jump lead directly to the negative (—) terminal of the dis- charged battery. This may lead to an ex- plosion. A\ WARNING + Do not allow battery electrolyte to come in contact with eyes, skin, fab- rics or painted surfaces. The fluid contains acid which can cause in- jury and severe damage. Wear pro- ective apparel. Do not inhale any battery gases. Keep children away tom batteries. In case if battery acid comes in contact with the skin, wash it off immediately with water and seek medical attention. * During charging and jump-starting, explosive gases can escape from 216 the battery. There is a risk of an ex- plosion. Particularly

explosive gases can escape from 216 the battery. There is a risk of an ex- plosion. Particularly avoid fire, open flames, creating sparks and smok- ing. Ensure there is sufficient venti- lation while charging and jump-starting. Do not lean over the battery. Make sure that the positive terminal of a connected battery does not come into contact with vehicle parts. Never place metal objects or tools on a battery. It is important that you observe the described order of the battery termi- nals when connecting and discon- necting a battery. If you are in doubt, seek assistance from qualified spe- cialist workshop. Never connect or disconnect the battery terminals while the engine is running. TOWING When towing a break down vehicle, cer- tain precautions and procedures must be taken to prevent damage to the vehicle and/or components. Failure to use stan- dard towing precautionary measures when lifting or towing a break down vehicle could result in an unsafe operating condition. To ensure

lifting or towing a break down vehicle could result in an unsafe operating condition. To ensure proper towing and to prevent accidental damage to your vehicle, take help of a TATA MOTORS authorized dealer or a commercial tow-truck service. @ NOTE Make sure that the parking brake is re- leased; vehicle in neutral gear position and steering wheel is unlocked. The power steering functions only when en- gine is running. Hence, during towing the steering efforts will be more.  AX WARNING Access to Tow Hook Never get under your vehicle after it has been lifted by a tow truck. For towing a vehicle, the best way is to use a wrecker. Alter-natively use a rigid tow bar. Switch ‘ON’ the hazard warning in- dicators of both the vehicles to warn other road users. Limit the speed to 20-30 kmph. In case of brake failure, use the parking brake to control the vehicle. Fasten the tow rope or tow bar at the towing eyes. Otherwise, the ve- hicle could be damaged. When towing, pull away slowly and

at the towing eyes. Otherwise, the ve- hicle could be damaged. When towing, pull away slowly and smoothly. If the tractive power is too high, the vehicles could be dam- aged. + Unscrew the screws (1) & (2) with the help of screw driver which is provided in Tool kit. * Slide the cover in rear direction to dis- engage front lugs. + Then carefully disengage the side lugs. For removal of cover, pull the rear side down. 217  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE For fitment of cover, + Engage the front lugs first. + Slowly press from both side to engage side lugs. + Engage rear lugs and then tighten the screws. 218 Recommended Towing In case of break down, we recommend that your vehicle be towed with the driving wheels off the ground or place the vehicle on a flatbed truck as shown. WARNING + Never tow your vehicle with the front wheels on the ground or four wheels on the ground (forward or back- ward), as this may cause serious damage to the transmission. + When towing with the rear wheels

ward), as this may cause serious damage to the transmission. + When towing with the rear wheels on the ground or on towing dollies, place the ignition switch in the ‘ACC’ or ‘ON’ position, and secure the steering wheel in the straight-ahead position with a rope or similar de- vice. To avoid serious damage to automatic transaxle, limit the vehicle speed to 15 km/h (10 mph) and drive less than 1.5 k m (1 mile) when towing. Before towing, check the automatic transaxle fluid leak under your vehicle. If the automatic transaxle fluid is leaking, a latbed equipment or towing dolly must be used.  FUSES Your vehicle has fuse boxes at two loca- tions. The vehicles electrical circuits have fuses to protect the wiring from short circuits or sustained overload. 1. Engine Compartment Fuse Box 2. Cabin Compartment Fuse Box EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Checking and Replacing Fuses If any electrical unit in your vehicle is not functioning, check the fuses first. Please follow the steps below

unit in your vehicle is not functioning, check the fuses first. Please follow the steps below that will guide you to check and replace them. + Apply parking brake. * Switch off all electrical accessories. + Turn the ignition key to the ‘LOCK’ po- sition. + In the fuse box, identify the defective fuse from its melted wire. bw, BLOWN * Remove the blown fuse by “fuse puller”. The fuse puller and spare fuses are provided in the engine compart- ment fuse box. Engine compartment fuse box + Blown fuses must be replaced with fuses of same rating, which you can recognize by color and value. Always ensure that the spare fuses are replenished. + Ensure that all other fuses are pressed firmly in position. If a newly inserted fuse also blows, have the cause traced and rectified at nearest TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre immediately. 219  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE A\ WARNING + If you manipulate or bridge a faulty fuse or if you replace it with a fuse of higher amperage, the electric

or bridge a faulty fuse or if you replace it with a fuse of higher amperage, the electric ca- bles could be overloaded. This could result in a fire. There is a risk of an accident and injury. + Always replace faulty fuses with the specified new fuses having the cor- rect amperage. Battery Mounted Fuse f h Fuse No. Function Fuse Rat- STARTER PF1 MOTOR 250A WARNING If Fuse box cover is removed for any reason, it should be refitted properly at its original position. Engine Compartment Fuse Box To access the fuse box, follow the proce- dure as given below: Open the Engine compartment. + Remove the 2 screws of air intake cover (snorkel) with the help of screw driver provided in tool kit. + Remove the snap fitted cover of fuse box.  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE @ NOTE The fuse box layout is for reference pur- pose only. Please refer the sticker pro- vided inside the fuse box cover. Fuse box located in Engine compartment near battery. 221  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Fuses -

box located in Engine compartment near battery. 221  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Fuses - Engine Compartment (Diesel) 222 R18 AC CLUTCH MICRO RELAY (NO 20a) R17 RO WIPER SPEED: wena ReLav ren Soe (NO 20a) MICRO RELAY (ONC 204) F22 F21 F20 ar an Fae ase tA eon wa os | 39 fe] ‘aa Le FAS FAG Fi7 Fis LL td bd tow tgrmion (Coomg] FSB pre | rai SET] le] RWS VE HS |) | wor! | a0 wa og pear ar | | Has |e” | |i F23 °* wa OA wa A 204 A | F390 Fi4 Interior FIs) FI2 FID ro Be yy FB Fal [ool] [rm lfoan ]} EMS BAT -II soafl Ioal] | Berl] re |] RELAY [ra = 680A =A TTS | 40a ibn] f2 Fs Fd FS FG I} IF EQUIPPED FB comer] Pars ]] | Hew |] aes 2 BAT 4 = te |] ee 7 “ or Tone 680A ee |e) [se || -. R7 R6 STARTER INHIBIT MINI RELAY (No-40A) R5 R2 STARTER SOLENOID ‘WIN RELAY {NO-40A) EMS ECU MINE RELAY (No-404) COOLING FAN LOW MINE RELAY (NO-AOA) R1 MINI RELAY (NO-40A)  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE 40 EMS IGN 5A 41 ABS IGN 5A REVERSE LAMP 42 (MT)/TCU (AT) 5A FRONT WIPER 43 MOTOR 30A 44 SPARE - 45

40 EMS IGN 5A 41 ABS IGN 5A REVERSE LAMP 42 (MT)/TCU (AT) 5A FRONT WIPER 43 MOTOR 30A 44 SPARE - 45 IBS 5A 46 SPARE - EMS-CRANK 47 INPUT 5A , | INTERIOR F/BBAT] 44 48 COOLING FAN 40A -I LOW 2 EMS BATT 10A STARTER MOTOR 19 30A 3 COMPRESSOR 10A SOL 4 ATS 15A 20 BLOWER MOTOR 40A 5 HORN HIGHLOW 415A 21 coor FAN 60A 6 ABS ECU 25A 22 UNDERBONNET 30A 7 SPARE F/R BOX 3 EMS RELAY TOK 23. [REVERSE LAMPAT| 5A 9 BRAKE LAMP 5A 24 aoa enon OA ° — ~ 95 | HEADLAMPHIGH | 5, BEAM LH 12 TCU 20 HEAD LAMP LOW 43. | TELEMATICS CON-|" 26 BEAM RH OA TROL UNIT HEAD LAMP LOW aq | INTERIOR F/BBAT| 44 27 BEAM LH OA “Hl 28 EMS ECU - Il 5A 15 GLOW PLUG 60A 39 EMS ECUTI OA 16 IGNITIONLOAD | 30A 30 EMS EGU TI OA 17 ABS ECU 40A 30 SPARE = 223  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE WIPER ON/OFF MICRO (NO-NC) RELAY 20A ATS MICRO NO REALY 20A HEAD LAMP HIGH BEAM MICRO NO REALY 20A DCU MICRO NO RELAY 20A HEAD LAMP LOW BEAM MICRO NO RELAY 20A HORN MIRCO NO RELAY 20A FUEL PUMP MICRO NO RELAY 20A AC CLUTCH MICRO NO REALY 20A

NO RELAY 20A HORN MIRCO NO RELAY 20A FUEL PUMP MICRO NO RELAY 20A AC CLUTCH MICRO NO REALY 20A IGNITION MINI NO R1 RELAY 40A COOLING FAN R2 LOW MINI NO 40A RELAY COOLING FAN R3 HIGH MAXI NO 70A RELAY EMS ECU MINI NO R4 RELAY 40A STARTER SOLE- R5 NOID MINI NO 40A RELAY STARTER INHIBIT R6 MININO RELAY | 404 R7 - R8 - WIPER SPEED SLOW/FAST RO} micRO(NO-Nc) | 204 RELAY R10 : 224  Cabin Compartment Fuse Box Cover Removal Procedure Fuse box is located behind glove box. To access the fuse box, remove cover as per procedure given below: 1. Remove snap fitted end-cover first. 2. To remove the cover, gently pull the cover from bottom side such that the lugs get disengaged. EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE 3. Open glove box and remove complete assembly by removing highlighted 4 screws. 4. Disconnect glove box lamp connec- tion. 225  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE 5. Disconnect glove box switch connec- tion. 6. Pull out the fuse from fuse box mod- ules from available cutout as shown below.

connec- tion. 6. Pull out the fuse from fuse box mod- ules from available cutout as shown below. 226 7. Check the fuse of required function with help of fuse box sticker present at shown location. 8. If fuse is blown, replace with same rat- ing fuse from spare fuses in engine compartment fuse box. 9. Fit back the glove box by following re- verse procedure. @ NOTE It is recommended to replace fuse at TATA Authorized service center.  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Fuses - Cabin Compartment 3 2 8 Pik te Ps 3 Si ei R 2 z ale § me || eo ae 2 ba | é (]- IF EQUIPPED 4 [Pome a a € A rs BBE] [emt] |_| curser | mmamenncce | ||[ acnwecn ney] |f rokerscer seus] | eh | mcko Nowe aELY i GRO WO MICRO NO & x =| | ecu | oe 3 208) cao NO 3 204 204 ied ae 8 8 4 §\osae@|= Te] |= 2 3 . 8) cox. utoon neray 5 3 og Rea] a [ra - IGNITION RELAY eet | = |[Eenes] | y WICRO NO-NC NICRONO Baoan 2 om 2 oA ri 2 ON 3 woacert | 04 [eee] ws (eee | ¥ Steen] fromnonn | om 1) | pearen near winoow Sy] | nmtweravoeraxay

3 woacert | 04 [eee] ws (eee | ¥ Steen] fromnonn | om 1) | pearen near winoow Sy] | nmtweravoeraxay | | sLoweR MoToR 5 E me e INI RELAY = a Py 3 = 5 2 : g 5 3 FA 2 &| FRONT VIEW 2 3 § E é = 3 B z H 5 E i H 3 Accessory wn RELAY ‘ta 227  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Fuse Function VENTILATED SEAT 7 SEATER/6 SEATER Fuse Rat- ing 5A/ 10A Fuse Function AUIS ete Fuse Function [AUS REL ing ing IGN SUPPLY 10A |. CLUSTER 5A POWER SOCKET 15A KEY-IN/ POWER SEAT 5A/20A RESTRAINT CONTROL ACC RELAY COIL/ SUN- aOpuLe 410A ROOF 5A/20A MIRROR ADJUST 5A TERRAIN RESPONSE 410A MOTOR SWITCH IMMO IGN/ PEPS IGN 5A TRANSIT 0A FEEDBACK REAR WIPER 10A USB CHARGER 10A REAR BLOWER MOTOR 15A RELAY COIL/ PEPSACC | 10A/5A PARK ASSIST 5A ACC BATT HIGH POWER| 20 WIW MTR DR DOOR 25A BCM -| TBA USB CHARGER 3° ROW 5A IMMO BATT/ TPMS BATT 5A CDL 15A BCM - Il TBA STARTER FEEDBACK 5A INFOTAINMENT 20A HRW 25A BCM - Ill TBA BLOWER CONTROLLER 5A OBD/ ACC BATT LOW 415A TAILGATE RELEASE 0A POWER SUNSHADE 20A HVAC BAT 10A

TBA BLOWER CONTROLLER 5A OBD/ ACC BATT LOW 415A TAILGATE RELEASE 0A POWER SUNSHADE 20A HVAC BAT 10A AIR PURIFIER 5A AMPLIFIER 20A WIRELESS CHARGER PEPS 10A 5A 228  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Relay Function Relay Rat- i Relay Function RO Rat- Relay Function Relay Rat- ing g g CDL - LOCK MICRO NO- REAR WIPER MICRO NO 20A BLOWER MOTOR MINI 40A NC RELAY 20A RELAY NO RELAY CDL - UNLOCK MICRO POWER SEAT MICRO 950A ACCESSORY MINI NO 40A NO-NC RELAY 20A NO RELAY RELAY TAILGATE RELEASE 3A REVERSE LAMP MICRO 930A MICRO NO RELAY NO RELAY IGNITION MICRO NO HEATED REAR WINDOW | 45, RELAY 20A MINI NO RELAY BULB SPECIFICATION Description i 1 High beam + Low beam (Option 1) 12V, 55W H7 4 2 High beam + Low beam (Option II) righ eam : tov. on [ish Beam eG 4 3 Turn Signal Front (Option |) 12V, 21W PY21W 2 4 Turn Signal Front (Option II) LED LED Module 2 5 Turn Signal Rear 12V, 21W PY21W 2 6 Fog Lamp Front (Option |) 12V, 19W H16 2 7 Fog Lamp Rear (Option II) 12V, 21W P21W 2 8 Stop Lamp LED LED

Front (Option |) 12V, 19W H16 2 7 Fog Lamp Rear (Option II) 12V, 21W P21W 2 8 Stop Lamp LED LED Module 2 9 Position Lamp Front (Option 1) 12V, 5W W5W 6 10 Position Lamp Front (Option II) LED LED Module 2 229  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE 1 Position Lamp Rear LED LED Module 4 2 Reverse Lamp 12V, 16W W16W 2 3 Rear Registration Plate Lamp LED LED Module 2 4 Side Repeater Lamp on ORVM LED LED Module 2 5 High Mounted Stop Lamp (Option 1) 12V, 5W W5W 5 6 High Mounted Stop Lamp (Option Il) LED LED Module 1 7 Boot Lamp 12V, 5W W5W 1 8 Glove Box Lamp 12V, 5W W5W 1 9 DRL (if available) LED LED Module 2 20 Roof Lamp 1st Row LED LED Module 1 21 Roof Lamp 2nd Row LED LED Module 1 22 Door Ajar / Puddle Lamp 12V, 5W W5W 4 23 Ambient light (mood) LED LED Module 7 230  24 X 7 ROAD ASSISTANCE Dear Customer, It is our responsibility and our endeavor to ensure that you have our complete service backup, wherever and whenever you need the same. When you have a road network that spans wide area, the

wherever and whenever you need the same. When you have a road network that spans wide area, the probability of a breakdown happening within hailing dis- tance of a TATA MOTORS Authorized Workshop is very low. It is precisely for this reason, we have tied up with TVS AA, who will provide break- down assistance including towing to the nearest TATA MOTORS Authorized Work- shop through their Authorized Service Providers (ASP). The 24X7 On Road Assistance Program shall be automatically available to your ve- hicle for the duration of Warranty period. The program shall also be available, if you avail the same post warranty. EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Response Time ** for the On Road As- sistance Program Within City Limits On State or Na- tional Highways Ghat Roads and other places 60 minutes 90 minutes 120 minutes ** (The response time will depend on the location, terrain, traffic density and the time of the day.) Standard Procedure when Calling for on Road Assistance in case of a

and the time of the day.) Standard Procedure when Calling for on Road Assistance in case of a Breakdown: * Dial the toll free help line number — 1800 209 8282 + Identify your vehicle with the Vehicle chassis number that is available in the Owner’s Manual. + Explain your exact location with land- marks and tell us about the problem you face with the vehicle. + Park your vehicle on the edge of the road, open the bonnet and put on the hazard warning signal. Place the advance warning triangle supplied with the vehicle approx. 3 m from the vehicle in the direction of on- coming traffic. TATA MOTORS | SERVICE RESPONSIVE a) 24x7 ON-ROAD ASSISTANCE 1800 209 8282 231  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Coverage Under 24 X 7 on Road As- sistance Program 1. The 24x7 On Road Assistance Pro- gram Service covers the following services on your vehicle during war- ranty period. + Wheel change through spare wheel. + Arrangement of fuel. (Fuel cost will be chargeable at actual cost). + Re-opening the

spare wheel. + Arrangement of fuel. (Fuel cost will be chargeable at actual cost). + Re-opening the vehicle in cases of key lock out. + Rectification of electrical problems re- lated to battery, fuses etc. + On spot repairs for complaints re- pairable at site. + Vehicle to vehicle towing or winching & towing for non-accident cases up to the nearest TATA MOTORS authorized workshop. Towing charges at actual cost beyond the same to be paid to the ASP in cash. (Any ferry or toll charges levied in relation to the vehicle being towed to be paid by the customers in actuals in cash). For accident cases, towing charges to be 232 borne by the customer. 2. The 24x7 On Road Assistance Pro- gram coverage on availing the 24X7 policy, post warranty is up to maximum of 6 instance of assistance in one year for both the plans- Basic and Premium. In the premium plan, this includes 2 in- stances of towing up to the nearest TATA MOTORS authorized workshop. Exclusions 24 X 7 On Road Assistance Program does

to the nearest TATA MOTORS authorized workshop. Exclusions 24 X 7 On Road Assistance Program does not apply to * Cost of parts consumables and labour for such repairs not covered under warranty*. These charges are to be settled with ASP in cash. * Toll or ferry charges paid by ASP in reaching to the breakdown site to be settled with ASP in actuals in cash. * Cases involving accident, fire, theft, vandalism, riots, lightening, earth- quake, windstorm, hail, tsunami, un- usual weather conditions, other acts of God, flood, etc. + Vehicles that are unattended, un-reg- istered, impounded or abandoned. Breakdown/defects caused by misuse, abuse, negligence, alterations or mod- ifications made to the vehicle. Lack of maintenance as per the main- tenance schedule as detailed in the owner’s manual. Cases involving racing, rallies, vehicle testing or practice for such events.  Disclaimer * The Service is not available in Lak- shadweep. “The reach time is indicative & the actual reach time will

is not available in Lak- shadweep. “The reach time is indicative & the actual reach time will be conveyed by the call center at the time of breakdown call. + The reach time can vary depending on the traffic density & time of the day. + The reach time indicated does not ac- count for delays due to but not limited to acts of God, laws, rules & regula- tions for time being in force, orders o statutory or Govt. authorities, industria disputes, inclement weather, heavy down pour, floods, storms, natura calamities, road blocks due to acci- dents, general strife and law & order conditions viz. fire, arson, riots, strikes, terrorist attacks, war etc. On spot repairs at breakdown site shal depend on nature of complaints & will be as per the discretion of the ASP. *The decision for free of charge repairs wil be as per the warranty policy & proce- dures of TATA MOTORS PASSENGER VEHICLE LIMITED and as EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE per the interpretation of the same by ASP. You will be duly

as EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE per the interpretation of the same by ASP. You will be duly informed by the ASP & call center for the change applicable if any. + All charges wherever applicable need to be settled directly with the ASP. Exclusion of Liabilities It is understood that TATA MOTORS shall be under no liability whatsoever in respect of any loss or damage aris- ing directly or indirectly out of any delay in or non-delivery of, defect/defi- ciency in service/parts provided by ASP. In case vehicle cannot be repaired on- site, customers are advised to use the towing facility for taking their vehicle to the nearest TATA MOTORS authorized workshop only. In no condition will the vehicle be towed to any unauthorized workshop. TATA MOTORS will not be responsible for any repairs carried out in such unauthorized workshop. Customer are advised to take acknowl- edgment from the ASP for the list of ac- cessories/extra fittings and other belongings in the vehicle as well as the

ASP for the list of ac- cessories/extra fittings and other belongings in the vehicle as well as the current condition related to dents/scratches breakages of parts/fit- ments of the vehicle at the time of ASP taking possession of the vehicle & to verify these items when delivery is 233  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE taken back by them, Claim for loss of or damage to items, if any should be taken up with ASP directly. TATA MO- TORS shall not be responsible for any such claims, damages/loss or any de- ficiency of service of the ASP. + Vehicles will be handled, repaired & towed as per the customer's risk & TATA MOTORS shall not be liable for any damages / claims as a result of the same. + Services entitled to the customers can be refused or cancelled on account of abusive behavior, fraudulent represen- tation, malicious intent and refusal to pay the charges for any charges re- lated services and spare parts during service or on previous occasion on part of the customer. + On site

services and spare parts during service or on previous occasion on part of the customer. + On site repairs may be temporary in nature. The completion of repairs does not certify the road worthiness of the vehicle. The customer is advised to en- sure temporary repairs carried out on- site is followed by permanent repairs at a TATA MOTORS Authorized Work- 234 shop at the earliest. Terms and condi- tions and service coverage, exclusions etc. are subject to change without no- tice  MAINTENANCE AND SERVICES MAINTENANCE AND SERVICE Periodic maintenance is essential for en- suring long trouble free performance. Have your vehicle serviced regularly from TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Cen- tre. There is a large network of TATA MO- TORS Authorized Service Centre to help you with their professional servicing ex- pertise. Scheduled maintenance informa- tion is provided which makes tracking routine service easy. The following checks can be carried out between the recommended scheduled maintenance

service easy. The following checks can be carried out between the recommended scheduled maintenance services. Take help of our authorized service center for assistance. + Engine oil level + Engine coolant level * Brake/Clutch fluid level + Washer fluid level checking & topping up + Power steering fluid level + Battery electrolyte level + Tyre inflation pressure including spare wheel @ NOTE Refer “Opening and Closing” section for engine bonnet opening. A\ WARNING * Becareful not to touch a hot engine, exhaust manifold and pipes, muffler, radiator and water hoses. * Do not work on a vehicle with the engine running in an enclosed space, unless you are sure of enough ventilation. * Keep all open flames and other burning material (such as ciga- rettes) away from the battery and all fuel related parts. If you need to do any work inside the engine compartment, * Switch off the ignition. + Never reach into the area where there is a risk of danger from mov- ing components, such as the fan ro-

reach into the area where there is a risk of danger from mov- ing components, such as the fan ro- tation area. * Keep clothing away from moving parts. 235  MAINTENANCE AND SERVICES ENGINE COMPARTMENT . Brake fluid reservoir . Windshield washer container . Coolant auxiliary tank . Dip stick engine oil . Engine oil filling cap . Fuse and relay box (Below Air intake) FwWN = . Power Steering Oil Reservoir 236 . Battery  Oil / Fluid Level Engine Oil Level Checking Warm up the engine to normal operating temperature. Turn it ‘OFF’ and wait for 5 minutes for the oil to return to the oil pan. Be sure the ve- hicle is on a level surface. Take out the dipstick, wipe it clean, and reinsert it fully. Pull it out again and exam- ine the oil level. It should be between ‘MIN’ and ‘MAX’ level. If not, top up with recom- mended engine oil. @ NOTE The oil consumption depends upon the driving style and the conditions under which the vehicle is used. 4, % Engine oil dipstick @ NOTE * Do not remove the

the conditions under which the vehicle is used. 4, % Engine oil dipstick @ NOTE * Do not remove the filler cap when the engine is running. + Do not add oil above the MAX. mark. Oil level above the MAX. mark may cause engine damage. For location of Engine oil filling cap and dip stick, please refer Engine Compart- ment. MAINTENANCE AND SERVICES Engine Oil Quality Monitoring Indicator Your vehicle is equipped with a feature in the engine man- agement system which will monitor the engine oil quality throughout the lifetime of the oil in the engine. This will ensure that an oil change is requested only when really necessary. Once the oil quality reaches a threshold, the engine management system will ask for oil change by lighting the above lamp. This lamp will be blinking for oil change re- quest. Depending on your driving conditions, the oil quality may get deteriorated sooner. For example, if you are driving predominantly in highway conditions without straining the engine excessively,

if you are driving predominantly in highway conditions without straining the engine excessively, the oil lamp indicating oil change may appear later than ex- pected. Similarly, if you drive continuously and for a long time in city at low speeds with frequent cold starts and short jour- neys, the engine management system may prompt you to change the oil sooner than had the car been used mainly in high- ways. 237  MAINTENANCE AND SERVICES @ NOTE + Under no circumstances oil change intervals should exceed 15,000 km or 12 Months, whichever occurs earlier. This behavior is absolutely normal, the oil change is intended to keep your engine at peak efficiency, and replacing used oil with fresh oil is normal maintenance and not a malfunction. As soon as this lamp is blinking, the oil should be changed as per oil change / servicing procedure. Please contact near- est TATA authorized service center imme- diately. Once the oil is changed as per the normal oil change / servicing procedure, the oil

imme- diately. Once the oil is changed as per the normal oil change / servicing procedure, the oil quality should be reset using TATA MO- TORS diagnostic tool. The vehicle should never be run again after an oil change without resetting oil quality using TATA MOTORS diagnostic tool. If the vehicle is continuously driven ignor- 238 ing this lamp, MIL, in addition to the above lamp, will be turned ON. Depending on the distance driven without oil change and oil quality reset, the engine will go into a soft or strong performance reduction mode. @NOTE The appearance of this blinking warning light or symbol is not related to the amount of oil in the engine, so if the light or symbol comes ON and blinking, never add /top up engine oil but contact the nearest TATA authorized service center to have oil change and reset. Brake/clutch Fluid Level Pull the notch and release the top cover.  Remove the cap and check the level. Top up if required. NOTE + Do not allow brake fluid to make contact with

cap and check the level. Top up if required. NOTE + Do not allow brake fluid to make contact with the skin or eyes. * Do not allow brake fluid to splash or spill on the painted surface as it will damage the paint. In case of Spillage, wipe it off immediately. For location of Brake/Clutch Fluid Con- tainer and filling cap, please refer En- gine Compartment. Engine Coolant Level Check whether the coolant level is be- tween the ‘MIN’ and ‘MAX’ marks provided on the coolant reservoir. When the coolant level is low, top up with recommended coolant up to ‘MAX’ level. @ NOTE In case of emergency, a large amount of water without engine coolant may be added in order to reach a vehicle serv- ice location. Whenever coolant has been added, the MAINTENANCE AND SERVICES coolant level in the coolant reservoir should be checked few times after driving the vehicle to confirm correct level. For location of Engine coolant con- tainer and filler cap, please refer Engine Compartment. Topping of the

of Engine coolant con- tainer and filler cap, please refer Engine Compartment. Topping of the coolant should be done in the auxiliary tank only. Make sure that only TATA MOTORS rec- ommended coolant is used. Mixing of dif- ferent coolants may harm your engine’s cooling system and its components. Do not add extra inhibitors or additives to the coolant. These can be harmful and com- promise the corrosion protection of the en- gine coolant. A\ WARNING * The engine cooling system is pres- surized, particularly when the en- gine is warm. When opening the cap, you could get burnt by hot coolant spraying out. There is a risk 239  MAINTENANCE AND SERVICES of injury. + Let the engine cool down before opening the cap. Wear eye and hand protection when opening the cap. Open the cap slowly half a turn to allow pressure to escape. Power Steering Fluid Level The level of the power steering fluid should be between the MIN. and MAX. mark on the side of the power steering fluid con- tainer. If the

be between the MIN. and MAX. mark on the side of the power steering fluid con- tainer. If the level falls below the MIN. mark, add recommended fluid. 240 In case of leakage or hard steering, please contact the nearest Authorized Service outlet. A\ WARNING + Donot start the engine without oil in the power steering system. + Donotallow dirt into power steering fluid reservoir during refilling or top up. + Holding steering wheel at lock posi- tion (i.e >5sec) can damage /fail the power steering pump operation. + Do not run the vehicle with dry power steering pump. Ensure the power steering fluid is available in the reservoir. For Oil/fluid specification and Quantity, please refer ‘Maintenance’ section. For location of Power steering fluid container, please refer Engine Com- partment section. Windshield Washer Fluid Level Check that there is washer fluid in the tank. Refill it if necessary. Use a good quality windshield washer fluid, diluted with water as necessary. + Do not use detergent

Use a good quality windshield washer fluid, diluted with water as necessary. + Do not use detergent or any other additive in the windshield washer reservoir. This can severely impair visibility when sprayed on the wind  shield, and can also damage your vehicle’s paint. + Do not operate washer motor with no fluid in washer tank, washer motor will be damaged. For location of Windshield Washer Container and filling cap, please refer respective Engine Compartment. Battery + To access battery terminals, remove the cover by removing the 5 knobs. + Examine the battery for electrolyte level against the marking on the bat- tery outer case. Examine the battery terminals for cor- rosion (a white or yellowish powder). To remove it, wash the terminals with a solution of baking soda. It will bubble up and turn brown. When this stops, wash it off with plain water. Dry off the battery with a cloth or paper towel. Apply petroleum jelly to the terminals to prevent further corrosion. Use a proper wrench

towel. Apply petroleum jelly to the terminals to prevent further corrosion. Use a proper wrench to loosen and re- move cables from the terminals. Always disconnect the negative (-ve) cable first and reconnect it last. If your vehicle is equipped with Battery Sensor, then disconnect only the Sen- sor Output Cable. Do not remove the Sensor, Sensor connector completely as this will result into Sensor function loss temporarily. Sensor functionality will be restored when the Vehicle is parked for 3-4 hours without any oper- ation. MAINTENANCE AND SERVICES + Clean the battery terminals with a ter- minal cleaning tool or wire brush. + Reconnect and tighten the cables, coat the terminals with petroleum jelly. + Make sure that the battery is securely mounted. + If you need to connect the battery toa charger, disconnect both cables to pre- vent damage to the vehicle’s electrical system. + If your vehicle is equipped with Battery Sensor, connect the jump start leads on output terminal of Battery

vehicle is equipped with Battery Sensor, connect the jump start leads on output terminal of Battery Sensor. Do not connect the jump start leads on Sensor surface or Battery terminal. This will result of function loss of Bat- tery sensor. + Refer the below Battery Sensor image for do’s and don'ts. 241  MAINTENANCE AND SERVICES Battery For location of battery, please refer image of the respective Engine Com- partment. @NOTE Use only authorized Battery recom- mended by TATA Motors. Use of any other unauthorized Battery will result into Intelligent Alternator Control (IAC) function detoriation. 242 @ NOTE TYRES Authorized Battery: 78 Ah- Enhanced flooded battery to be replaced with enhanced flooded battery (78 Ah) of the respective supplier only. + During normal operation, the battery generates gas which is explosive in nature. A spark or open flame can cause the battery to explode caus- ing very serious injuries. + Keep all sparks, open flames and smoking materials away from the battery.

very serious injuries. + Keep all sparks, open flames and smoking materials away from the battery. + The battery contains sulphuric acid (electrolyte) which is poisonous and highly corrosive in nature. Getting electrolyte in your eyes or on the skin can cause severe burns. Wear protective clothing and a face shield or have a skilled technician to do the battery maintenance. 1 2 UNDER INFLATION CORRECT OY ® 3 OVER INFLATION Under Excessive side 1 . P inflation tread wear 2 Correct tyre Uniform wear pressure 3 Over inflation Excessive center tread wear  Inflation Check for inflation and condition of your vehicle tyres periodically. Check the pressure in the tyres when they are cold. Keeping the tyres properly inflated gives you the best combination of riding comfort, handling, tyre life and better fuel efficiency. Over inflation of tyres makes the vehicle tide bumpy and harsh. Tyres are more prone to uneven wear and dam-age from road hazards. Under inflated tyres reduce your comfort in

prone to uneven wear and dam-age from road hazards. Under inflated tyres reduce your comfort in vehicle handling and are prone to fail- ures due to high temperature. They also cause uneven wear and more fuel con- sumption. @ NOTE Every time you check inflation pressure, you should also examine tyres for un- even wear, damage and trapping of for- eign objects in the treads and wear. Recommended Tyre Pressure in Cold Condition (laden / Unladen) 33 psi / 33 psi / 235/70 R16 2.27 bar 2.27 bar 33 psi / 33 psi / 235/60 R18 2.27 bar 2.27 bar 33 psi / 33 psi / 235/65 R17 2.27 bar 2.27bar @ NOTE In case of Air filling in hot tyre condition, increase tyre pressure by 3 psi over specified cold pressures. MAINTENANCE AND SERVICES Tyre Pressure Sticker Location On B pillar near driver seat 243  MAINTENANCE AND SERVICES Tyre Rotation To increase tyre life rotate the tyre at spec- ified intervals or earlier depending on the operation of vehicle. The illustrations shows how to rotate tyres when

or earlier depending on the operation of vehicle. The illustrations shows how to rotate tyres when normal or temporary spare wheel is itted. For steel wheel rims with spare steel wheel rim 244 For alloy wheel rims with spare wheel of steel wheel rim (if available) EE —_—_ a —_$_$_$_- BB ,.. rotation FRONT Wheel Alignment ncorrect wheel alignment causes exces- sive and uneven tyre wear. Check whee alignment at specified intervals. Wheel Balancing Wheels of your vehicle are balanced for better ride comfort and longer tyre life. Bal- ancing needs to be done whenever tyre is removed from rim. AX WARNING If the vehicle vibrates abnormally on a smooth road, have the wheel balanced done immediately. @ NOTE + While driving in snow, it is advisable to use the snow chain on roads. Fol- low assembly and safety instruction provided by the snow chain manu- facturers. + Please refer service schedule for wheel alignment.  Special Care for Tubeless Tyres + While removing tyre from wheel rim and

for wheel alignment.  Special Care for Tubeless Tyres + While removing tyre from wheel rim and mounting it back on wheel rim, ake precautions not to damage tyre bead. Use tyre removal and assembly machines. Damage or cut on tyre bead may cause gradual loss of air and de- flation of tyre. + Do not scratch inside of tubeless tyre with metallic or sharp object. Tubeless yres are coated with impermeable layer of rubber from inside which holds he air inside the tyre. Removal of this layer due to scratching may cause gradual loss of air and deflation. + If wheel rim gets damaged in service, get the wheel rim repaired/ replaced immediately. Running the vehicle with damaged rim may cause deflation of lyre and subsequent dislodging of tyre rom rim. + Maintain recommended inflation pres- sure. Over-inflation, in particular, may cause puncture or bursting of tyre. @ NOTE + Life and wear pattern of tyres de- pends on various parameters like tyre pressure, wheel alignment, wheel balancing, tyre

of tyres de- pends on various parameters like tyre pressure, wheel alignment, wheel balancing, tyre rotation, etc. It also largely depends on vehicle speed, load carried, usage, driving habits, road conditions, tyre quality, etc. In case fault is suspected to be due to poor quality of tyres, the same may be taken up with con- cerned tyre manufacturer. + For steel rim, Red dot of tyre to be matched with blue dot of rim while re-fitment. + Foralloy rim, Yellow dot of tyre to be matched with valve of rim while re- fitment MAINTENANCE AND SERVICES REMOTE KEY BATTERY REPLACE- MENT (for Flip key) Remote control key contains a battery, which is housed under the cover. If red LED on remote flashes for 5 times after operating any button on remote. It is recommended to replace battery at a TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre. You should, however, proceed as follows if you wish to replace the discharged bat- tery yourself: 1. Open the key blade. 2. Press off the battery cover with your thumb

bat- tery yourself: 1. Open the key blade. 2. Press off the battery cover with your thumb or using a flat screwdriver at the points of the arrows. 3. Remove the discharged battery from the key by pressing the battery down- wards at the point of the arrow. 245  MAINTENANCE AND SERVICES 4. Insert the new battery. 5. Ensure that the “+” symbol on the bat- 246 tery is facing upwards. The correct po- larity is shown on the battery cover. . Position the battery cover on the key and press on it until it is heard to lock in place. SMART KEY BATTERY REPLACE- MENT (for PEPS variant) Procedure: 1. Open rear side of key (battery cover). 2. Replace with new battery in the smart key battery slot with proper polarity o' battery. 3. Close the battery cover. 4. Ensure that the key cover is intac properly.  @ NOTE Use CR 2032 battery only. @ NOTE An inappropriately disposed battery can be harmful to the environment and human health. Dispose the battery ac- cording to your local law(s) and regula- tion.

and human health. Dispose the battery ac- cording to your local law(s) and regula- tion. ON BOARD DIAGNOSTIC (OBD Il) SYSTEM Diagnostic connector is located on RH side below the steering wheel. On board Diagnostics or OBD, is an auto- motive term referring to a vehicle’s self-di- agnostic and reporting capability. The OBD system allows continuous diagnosis of the components of the vehicle corre- lated with emissions. This system warns the driver, by turning “ON” the Malfunction Indication lamp (MIL) on the instrument cluster, when a fault causes emission lev- els to increase. MAINTENANCE AND SERVICES The OBD system also has a diagnostic connector that can be interfaced with ap- propriate diagnostic tools, which makes it possible to read the fault codes stored in the Electronic Control Unit, together with a series of specific parameters for Engine operation and Diagnosis. This check can also be carried out by the traffic police. 247  MAINTENANCE AND SERVICES DIESEL PARTICULATE FILTER

also be carried out by the traffic police. 247  MAINTENANCE AND SERVICES DIESEL PARTICULATE FILTER (DPF) Your vehicle is equipped with a Diesel Particulate Filter (DPF). DPF is a mechanical filter that physically traps particulate matter from diesel engine exhaust gas. DPF traps the particulate matter in the fol- lowing way: ¢ Filtration - Particulates / soot are col- lected in the inlet channel of the filter. ¢ Regeneration - When the filter chan- nels are filled up with soot, they are cleaned automatically by the engine management system. This process is known as DPF Regeneration and this will happen during normal running of the vehicle. DPF equipped in vehicle normally regen- erates automatically which is controlled by engine management system. In certain specific driving conditions, DPF regeneration may not happen automati- cally as the desired temperatures required to regenerate soot may not be achievable 248 due to specific driving conditions. This in- cludes prolonged driving

may not be achievable 248 due to specific driving conditions. This in- cludes prolonged driving at low vehicle speeds for considerable amount of time (driving in heavy city traffic), prolonged running of the engine in idle conditions etc. In such cases, a warning lamp as indi- cated above will be illuminated in the in- strument cluster indicating that soot regeneration is insufficient. This warning lamp switches ON constantly to indicate that the DPF needs to be re- generated. This lamp does not indicate any malfunction. The warning lamp remains OFF during normal vehicle behavior and lights up only when driving condition requires the driver to be notified. When this lamp is ON, keep the car running ideally at 3° gear, 60km/hr with engine speed over 2000 rpm until re- generation is completed and warning lamp goes OFF. The process normally takes about 20 minutes. @NOTE Do not shut down engine till the warning lamp goes OFF. If DPF regeneration process requested above is not fol- lowed

till the warning lamp goes OFF. If DPF regeneration process requested above is not fol- lowed for a long distance and the vehicle is driven with warning lamp ON, it can cause MIL to be turned ON. Once MIL is ON, please contact nearest TATA authorized service center. Service should connect the TATA MO- TORS diagnostic tool and conduct DPF service regeneration as indicated in the di- agnostic tool. Insufficient DPF regeneration resulting in the above lamps can also happen if the vehicle is driven with adultered diesel.  DPF Warning Lamp The lamp blinks constantly to indicate that the DPF needs to eliminate the trapped pollu- tants (particulate matter) through the re- generation process, it therefore does not indicate a malfunction. The lamp remains off during the entire DPF regeneration and it lamps up only when driving conditions require the driver to be notified. To switch off the lamp, keep the car running until re- generation is complete (ideally at 3" gear, 60 kmph with engine

keep the car running until re- generation is complete (ideally at 3" gear, 60 kmph with engine speed over 2000 rpm). The process normally takes about 20 minutes. Note: Failure to obey the correct proce- dure for long distance when the DPF lamp comes ON can cause the warning lamp (MIL) to come ON. In that case, please contact nearest TATA authorized service center to restore correct DPF operation. AX WARNING Avoid parking of vehicle over inflamma- ble materials, such as dry leaves; grass etc. as exhaust system is hot enough to initiate fire. A\ WARNING * Ensure exhaust system is not blocked and is free from obstruction. + Blockages in the exhaust can create backpressure, low top speed, poor pick up, black smoke, carbon build up and low mileage and can affect power output of the engine and the emission levels. AX WARNING The maximum sulphur content of the diesel fuel must not exceed 0.001% (10 parts per million). Failure to comply with the standards may damage engine components and the

(10 parts per million). Failure to comply with the standards may damage engine components and the exhaust after- treatment system. MAINTENANCE AND SERVICES EXHAUST AFTER TREATMENT SYSTEM Exhaust after treatment consists of below components: 1. Diesel Oxidation Catalyst (DOC) 2. Diesel Particulate Filter (DPF) 3. Selective Catalyst Reduction (SCR) 4. Various Sensors and Actuators. The exhaust gas coming from the engine first passes through the DOC and then through DPF. DPF is a filter, which filters carbon soot in the exhaust gas. DOC and DPF contains precious metals which converts hydrocar- bons, carbon monoxide etc. in the exhaust gas to harmless constituents. Additionally DPF also removes most of the carbon soot particles in the exhaust gas. The collected carbon soot in the DPF is re- generated to clean the filter. In order to reduce the NOx levels even fur- ther, SCR system is used. In SCR system, DEF is injected in the exhaust stream. With the help of injected ammonia in the DEF,

In SCR system, DEF is injected in the exhaust stream. With the help of injected ammonia in the DEF, NOx is converted into harmless con- 249  MAINTENANCE AND SERVICES stituents. @ NOTE In order to control exhaust emissions, this vehicle is equipped with SCR sys- tem through which DEF (Diesel Exhaust Fluid) continuously flows. It is normal to have a noise from the SCR system dur- ing vehicle operation or for about 20 to 30 seconds after engine is switched off. 250 REGENERATION PROCESS DPF is a mechanical filter that physically traps particulate matter from diesel engine exhaust gas. DPF traps the particulate matter in the fol- lowing way: + Filtration — Particulates / soot are col- lected in the inlet channel of the filter. + Regeneration — When the filter chan- nels are filled up with soot, they are cleaned automatically by the engine management system. This process is known as DPF Regeneration and this will happen during normal running of the vehicle. In certain specific driving

Regeneration and this will happen during normal running of the vehicle. In certain specific driving conditions, DPF regeneration may not happen automati- cally as the desired temperatures required to regenerate soot many not be achievable due to specific driving conditions. This may happen in prolonged driving at low vehicle speeds for considerable amount of time (driving in heavy city traf- fic), prolonged running of the engine in idle conditions, use of adulterated diesel etc. In such cases, a DPF warning lamp will be illuminated indicating that soot regenera- tion is insufficient.  DIESEL EXHAUST FLUID (DEF) The vehicle is equipped with DEF injection system and Se- lective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) to meet emission stan- dards. DEF Storage DEF is a very stable product with a long shelf life. Stored at temperatures LOWER than 32°C, it has a shelf life of at least one year. @ NOTE DEF freezes at temperatures lower than -11°C. When working with DEF, it is important to know that: + Any

at temperatures lower than -11°C. When working with DEF, it is important to know that: + Any containers or parts that comes into contact with DEF must be DEF compatible (plastic or stainless steel). Copper, brass, aluminum, iron or non-stainless steel should be avoid-ed as they are subject to cor- rosion by DEF. + During filling, if DEF overflows / is Spilled, kindly ensure it is cleaned / wiped up completely by wet cloth & then by dry cloth also. Adding DEF Preliminary Conditions Consumption of the additive DEF depends on the condition of vehicle use and is indi- cated on the instrument cluster. DEF freezes at temperatures lower than - 11°C. If the car stands for a long time at this temperature refilling could be difficult. For this reason, it is advised to park the vehicle in a garage and/or heated environ- ment and wait for the DEF to return to liq- uid state before topping up. Proceed as follows: + Park the car on flat ground and stop the engine by placing the ignition in the OFF

as follows: + Park the car on flat ground and stop the engine by placing the ignition in the OFF position. + DEF filler is located in the tailgate com- partment below the tool kit tray. Open MAINTENANCE AND SERVICES the tailgate and remove the tool kit tray and remove the cap from the DEF filler. A\ WARNING Never fill DEF or diesel fuel into the wrong filling ports. This may result seri- ous damage to Engine, Fuel system and Emission system components. In case of wrongly filled do not start the engine, contact TATA Motors Authorised Service Centre. 251  MAINTENANCE AND SERVICES DEF Filler Tank 1. Urea cap without tether 2. Spill out collecting cup DEF Refilling Procedure Conditions for refilling: Vehicle should be parked on a flat road surface. Switch OFF the Engine and ignition should be in OFF position. 252 @NOTE After DEF refilling through Nozzle OR container, in case of DEF is spill out dur- ing refilling. Spill out DEF need to be Swipe out with help of cotton or same mean. DEF

out dur- ing refilling. Spill out DEF need to be Swipe out with help of cotton or same mean. DEF Quantity Refilling It is recommended that DEF tank is filled to full capacity. In order to recognise the re-filling, mini- mum 8L of DEF should be filled @NOTE Do not switch on the key during refill op- eration if refill is not done in one at- tempt. Park the vehicle in plain surface in no load condition and Switch-OFF the ignition, wait for 6 minutes. After refilling DEF in ignition OFF condi- tion, wait for 6 minutes. After 6 minutes, switch ignition ON. Wait for DEF level to get updated on instrument cluster. Start the vehicle. Ensure that DEF will be filled at room temperature. Precautions while Refilling DEF Refilling with Nozzles You can fill up at any DEF Distributor/Re- tailer. Proceed as follows: ¢ Insert the DEF nozzle in the filler, start refilling and stop refilling at the first shut-off (the shut-off indicates that the DEF tank is full). Do not proceed with the refilling, to

shut-off (the shut-off indicates that the DEF tank is full). Do not proceed with the refilling, to prevent spillage of DEF. + Extract the nozzle. It is recommended to use a portable magnet adapter on DEF Nozzle while filling, otherwise dispenser filling is not possible.  Portable Magnet Adapter Refilling with Containers Procedure for filling DEF in DEF tank + Ensure ignition is in OFF position (re- move key from barrel, if provided) + Ensure vehicle is parked in plain sur- face in no load condition (vehicle should be empty without passengers or luggage) + — Fill Wait for 6 minutes after ignition off. + Fill TATA MOTORS PASSENGER VEHICLE LIMITED authorized DEF (minimum 8 liters) + Wait for 6 minutes after filling DEF. + Turn ON the ignition and wait till DEF level gets updated in instrument clus- ter. + Start the vehicle. Low DEF Level Warning Messages These messages will be indicated when DEF level is low. This can happen when vehicle runs without filling DEF in spite of message to

when DEF level is low. This can happen when vehicle runs without filling DEF in spite of message to fill DEF. + First warning message will be indi- cated at approximately in between 1500 — 2400 km before emptying of DEF tank at the current DEF consump- tion rate. “DEF LEVEL LOW, REFILL SOON” message will be indicated at this warning level. DEF Level Low Refill Soon f@ NORMAL OK JE Cite ODO 256849 km + If the vehicle runs without filling DEF, MAINTENANCE AND SERVICES next warning level will be indicated at approximately 600 km before emptying of DEF tank at current DEF consump- tion rate. “ENGINE STOPS IN 600 KM” message will be indicated at this warn- ing level. This message will continue till DEF tank becomes empty with cor- responding distance gradually reduc- ing to 0 km. rpm x1000 » Engine Stops in XXKm Refill DEF OK a3 CimtetH ODO 256849 km On further driving the vehicle without filling DEF, message “ENGINE WILL NOT RESTART IN NEXT KEY ON’ will appear. 253  MAINTENANCE AND

filling DEF, message “ENGINE WILL NOT RESTART IN NEXT KEY ON’ will appear. 253  MAINTENANCE AND SERVICES 932PM @ Engine Will Not Restart In Next Key On OK E 1H ODO 256849 km Level Low SDRANGE XXXX km Clem + Message “ENGINE STOP TANK EMPTY” will be displayed once DEF tank is empty. 254 rpm x1000 Engine Stop DEF Tank Empty OK E 1H ODO 256849 km Level Low > RANGE XXXX km Cle Once the engine is stopped with this mes- sage, it will not be possible to restart the engine without filling DEF. @NOTE Please refer to DEF filling procedure for filling DEF. DEF Level Messages in case of SCR System Fault These messages will be indicated when there is any problem in the SCR system and SCR system fault is displayed. + Depending on the distance, the vehicle can run before emptying of DEF tank at the current DEF consumption rate. “SCR SYSTEM FAULT, ENGINE STOPS IN XXX KM” message will be indicated. > Engine Stops inXxKm Contact service centre OK |. 1H O00 256849 km bc If the vehicle is run without

Engine Stops inXxKm Contact service centre OK |. 1H O00 256849 km bc If the vehicle is run without rectifying the SCR system (through TATA MOTORS service center), warning message will con- tinue with corresponding distance gradu- ally reducing to 0 km. After this, engine will not start in the next ignition cycle. The vehicle has to be brought to TATA MOTORS service center for rectification.  DEF Level Messages in case of Poor Quality DEF + In case of use of poor quality of DEF, message “DEF QUALITY LOW, EN- GINE STOPS IN XXX KM” will appear. In such cases, currently filled DEF has to be drained completely and proper good quality DEF needs to be filled until DEF tank is full. * Messages may vary slightly de- pending on the vehicle variant. rpm x1000 » 5 . Engine Stops in XX Km a Check DEF System f@ NORMAL OK Quality iow ~ te ORANGE XXXK km —seClmetm—=tH ODO 256849 km @ NOTE + Please refer to DEF filling procedure for filling DEF. MAINTENANCE AND SERVICES 255  MAINTENANCE AND SERVICES

to DEF filling procedure for filling DEF. MAINTENANCE AND SERVICES 255  MAINTENANCE AND SERVICES SERVICE INSTRUCTIONS The TATA SAFARI has been manufactured to give you econom- ical and trouble free performance. To achieve this, please follow the instructions as stated. Your vehicle is entitled to three free services (labour only). The free service coupons are attached to the sales invoice. Please present these coupons to the servicing dealer while availing free services. 1st free service - At 1,000 - 2,000 kms. OR 2 months, whichever is earlier. 2nd free service - At 7,000 - 8,000 kms. OR 6 months, whichever is earlier. 3rd free service - At 14,500 - 15,500 kms. OR 12 months, whichever is earlier. All services other than free services are chargeable. 256 Servicing of the vehicle can be done at any TATA MOTORS Au- thorised Dealer Workshop or TATA MOTORS Authorised Service Centre (TASC). Warranty claims can be settled by any TATA MOTORS Authorised Dealer Workshop or TATA MOTORS

(TASC). Warranty claims can be settled by any TATA MOTORS Authorised Dealer Workshop or TATA MOTORS Authorised Service Centre (TASC).  MAINTENANCE AND SERVICES SERVICE SCHEDULE # - Kms or Months whichever occurs earlier Operation GENERAL Wash the vehicle & Clean Condenser Fins. Check & Top up Flu- ids (If required): Transaxle Oil, Diesel Exhaust Fluid} Every (DEF)*, Coolant, | Service Brake Fluid, Battery Electrolyte, Wind Screen washer fluid. Check Fuel Lines for} Every Leakages. Service Check and Capture all DTC’s Clear all}| Every faults and Erase the| Service Codes. Every Service 257  MAINTENANCE AND SERVICES Operation Check & Replace if found damaged -Ex-| 24M haust hanger. Check all door latch & striker operations, 15K/ Adjust If required e e e e e e e e ° ° | 12M and apply grease if required. Check Engine mount, Rubber Boots, Rubber seat, Dust cover & Bushes | 7.5K/6M. elelelel/el/el/eljel/el/el/el}el/e;/e;/ele| eo ° ° ° for damage & re- place if required (Sus-pension). Check

eo ° ° ° for damage & re- place if required (Sus-pension). Check for all bolts & nuts (Tighten). 7.5K/6M elelelelesel/elelej/e{/elelje/eleje| eo ° ° ° ENGINE (Diesel) Change engine oil} 15K/ . . . . . . e . . . and Oil filter. 12M 258  Operation MAINTENANCE AND SERVICES Drain water from} 7.5K/ elelelelele . . . Fuel Filter Bowl. 6M Replace fuel filter} 15K/ . . . . . cartridge. 12M Check AC & alterna- tor belt condition vi-| 15K/ . . . . . sual-ly, replace if} 12M found damage. # 60K/ Change coolant. 36M e Replace air filter ele- ment (more fre- #30K/ quently for vehicle e e e ar 36M operating in severe condition). Replace timing drive kit (Timing belt, Auto * eo! e tensioner and Idler). Replace FEAD kit P 90K/ (Belt, idler 1&2, Auto 48M e tensioner) 259  MAINTENANCE AND SERVICES Operation TRANSAXLE Check oil level and top up if necessary -| 15K/ Manual Transmis-}| 12M ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° sion. Automatic Transmis- Filled for life time sion fluid STEERING Check oil level and} 15K/ top

° sion. Automatic Transmis- Filled for life time sion fluid STEERING Check oil level and} 15K/ top up if necessary. 12M ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° Replace Power] # 105K/ . steering Oil. 36M BRAKES Check front brake pads & rear brake} 15K/ . . . . . . . . . . linings. Replace if} 12M necessary. Replace brake fluid. Check brake system] # 45K/ . . . components for} 24M Leakages. 260  Operation MAINTENANCE AND SERVICES Inspect & if neces- sary adjust hand- brake setting. WHEELS & TYRES Check & Adjust Wheel alignment. # 15K/ 12M Check for Tyre pres- sure, condition & ro- tate. # 7.5K/ 12M ELECTRICAL Check specific grav- ity of battery elec- trolyte. 7.5K/ 6M Check headlamp fo- cussing. 15K/ 12M A.C. SYSTEM Clean filter and check Air-condition- ing / HVAC system for satisfactory per Every Service 261  MAINTENANCE AND SERVICES Operation formance. Replace Pollen Fil-| 15K/ . . . . . . e . . . ter. 12M Replace Combi] 15K/ . . . . . . e . . . PM2.5 filter 12M Vacuum Dust Sen-| 15K/ sor 42M e e e e e e

Replace Combi] 15K/ . . . . . . e . . . PM2.5 filter 12M Vacuum Dust Sen-| 15K/ sor 42M e e e e e e e e e e SUNROOF (if available) Check and clean the - f . Every guide rails and drain . elelej/eleljel/el/elel/el/ele}lel/el/e|}e|lele} eo ° ° ° Service holes. Clean the guide rails : 7.5K/ and mechanism and 6M elelelel/elel/el/elt|ele;/el/el/e;selele}|e|e|et|e apply grease. * DEF is a consumable item, refill or replacement is not based on service intervals. The consumption of DEF can vary depending on driving style, and road and weather conditions **__ For severe off-road usage, above checks to be done at every 5,000 km or after every severe usage event. 262  MAINTENANCE AND SERVICES Additional Maintenance Schedule under Severe Driving Conditions . , ae Change every 7500 km or 6 months or whenever 1 Engine oil and oil filter A , e e e e oil quantity lamp glows. 2 Air filter element Change at every 15,000 km or 18 months . . whichever is earlier. A- Driving in conditions such as

Change at every 15,000 km or 18 months . . whichever is earlier. A- Driving in conditions such as Patrolling, Pickup Van, Vehicle Towing, with Trailer Towing B - Driving on Dusty / Sandy roads C - More than 50% (in terms of km) driving in heavy city traffic D - Frequently operating in mountainous area @ NOTE In case of emergency, a large amount of water without engine coolant may be added in order to reach a vehicle service location. 263  MAINTENANCE AND SERVICES VEHICLE PARKING FOR LONG DU- RATION (Non - Use maintenance) If you want to park your vehicle at one place for long duration, following care is to be taken: 1. Park the vehicle in covered, dry and if possible well-ventilated premises. En- gage a gear. 2. Remove the battery terminal cables (first remove the cable from the nega- tive terminal). Ensure that battery is fully charged. 3. Block the wheel or engage in the gear mode. 4. Clean and protect the painted parts using protective wax. 5. Clean and protect the shiny metal

4. Clean and protect the painted parts using protective wax. 5. Clean and protect the shiny metal parts using commercially available special compounds. 6. Sprinkle talcum powder on the rubber windscreen wiper and lift them off the glass. 7. Wiper blade lifting sequence during cleaning / replacing, first lift front pas- 264 10. 11. 12. senger side wiper blade, then driver side blade. Slightly open the windows. Cover the vehicle with a cloth or perfo- rated plastic sheet. Do not use sheets of imperforated plastic as they do not allow moisture on the vehicle body to evaporate. Inflate the tyres to 0.5 bar above the normal specified pressure and check it at regular intervals. Check the battery charge every six weeks. Do not drain the engine cooling sys- tem.  FUEL SPECIFICATION Fuel (Diesel) Normal grade BS VI compliant diesel conforming to 1S1460:2017 or equivalent is recommended to be used as fuel. Do not use premium diesel available in the market like extra pre- mium / Turbojet etc.

as fuel. Do not use premium diesel available in the market like extra pre- mium / Turbojet etc. Recommended Fuel Specifications Cetane Number (min) CN 51 Sulphur content mg/kg 10 Lubricity (HFRR) micron 460 @ NOTE It is mandatory to use Diesel fuel with recommended Sulphur contents as given above. Use of any other diesel fuel can in- crease the pollutants/damage the engine or exhaust after treat- ment system. TECHNICAL INFORMATION 265  TECHNICAL INFORMATION LUBRICANT SPECIFICATION Use following genuine fluids, coolants and lubricants recommended for optimum performance of your vehicle. Tata Motors Genuine Oil Fully Engine oil (Diesel) 0W20 ACEA C2 PETRONAS Synthow20 §L fooler (Premixed) Class II/JIS K2234 SUNSTAR CCI Tata Motors Genuine Coolant 2200 aL (Antifreeze agent +Soft |r ss7700S1 Tata Motors Genuine Coolant Puro- water 40:60 ratio) ANSYESCO cool++ Anchemo Anand . PETRONAS ZC 601 TATA Motors Genuine Transaxle oil Manual Transaxle Oil FF PETRONAS SAFARI 1.9L Cutomatic

ZC 601 TATA Motors Genuine Transaxle oil Manual Transaxle Oil FF PETRONAS SAFARI 1.9L Cutomatic Transmission | ate sp.ty M1 S-OIL TOTAL ATF SP-IV M1 7.82L GOLDEN CRUISER _| TATA Genuine Brake Fluid Brake / Clutch fluid SAE J 1703, DOT4 |CASTROL Universal Brake fluid DOT 4 0.72L PETRONAS TUTELA Brake Fluid DOT 4 Power Steering oil ATF-DEXRON III CASTROL ATF DEX Il 41L Diesel Exhaust Fluid Solution confirms to = (DEF) 1$022241 standards NPL TATA ORIGINAL D.E.F 15L . SANDEN SP10 COMPRESSOR OIL-SANDEN Compressor Oil SP 10 VIKAS VIKAS-L 0.25 135 cc 266 Refrigerant - R134a - 780420 gms  TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS TECHNICAL INFORMATION Engine Model/type 2.0L KryoTec BSVI Capacity 1956 cc Max. Engine output 125 kW at 3750 (+/-50) rpm Max. Torque 350 Nm at 1750 to 2500 rpm Clutch Type Dry, Single Plate diaphragm type Outside diameter of clutch 240 mm Transaxle (MT) Model C635 - FIAT Type Manual, 6-speed, Synchromesh No. Of gears 6 Forward, 1 Reverse Transaxle (AT) Model 6F33 - HTS Type

Manual, 6-speed, Synchromesh No. Of gears 6 Forward, 1 Reverse Transaxle (AT) Model 6F33 - HTS Type Automatic, 6-speed, Planetary No. Of gears 6 Forward, 1 Reverse Steering Type Power assisted-Hydraulic with Tilt & Telescopic mechanism and collapse feature 267  TECHNICAL INFORMATION Brakes Brakes Front (Disc); Rear (Disc) Parking Brakes Cable Operated mechanical Suspension Front: Independent lower wishbone MacPherson strut with coil spring Type Rear: Semi-independent Twist blade suspension with Panhard rod & coil spring Front: MacPherson strut Damper twin tube with gas filled Shock absorber Rear: Damper twin tube with gas filled Wheels & tyres For Front & Rear, Option 1 : 235 / 70 R16 105H (Radial-Tubeless) Option 2 : 235 / 65 R17 104H (Radial-Tubeless) Option 3 : 235 / 60 R18 103V (Radial-Tubeless) Tyres For Spare wheel, Option 1 : 235 / 70 R16 (Radial-Tubeless) Option 2 : T155 90 R18 113M Option 1: 6.5J X 16 steel wheel Wheel rims Option 2: 7.5J X 17 alloy wheel Option 3: 8J X 18

113M Option 1: 6.5J X 16 steel wheel Wheel rims Option 2: 7.5J X 17 alloy wheel Option 3: 8J X 18 alloy wheel Fuel tank Capacity 50 liters DEF Tank Capacity 15 liters 268  TECHNICAL INFORMATION Cab / body Type Monocoque Electrical system System voltage 12 Volts Alternator capacity 160 Amp Battery 12V, 78 Ah Main chassis dimension (in mm) Wheel base 2741 Track front 1616 Track rear 1630 Overall length 4661 Overall height 1786 Max. Width 1894 Min. Ground clearance 143 Performance Max. Speed 170 kmph Max. Recommended gradability 30% Minimum Turning Circle Dia. in 14.6m Minimum Turning Clearance cir- cle dia. in meters 12.2m 269  TECHNICAL INFORMATION Parameter Weight (in kg) Specificat Kerb weight (unladen) 1771 (XE) 1779 (XM) 1782 (XT) 1803 (XT+) 1789 (XZ 7 Seat) 1779 (XZ 6 Seat) 1810 (XZ+ 7 Seat) 1800 (XZ+ 6 Seat) 1811 (XMA) 1808 (XTA) 1820 (XTA+) 1811 (XZA7 Seat) 1801 (XZA 6 Seat) 1825 (XZA+ 7 Seat) 1815 (XZA+ 6 Seat) Gross vehicle weight 2346 (XE) 2354 (XM) 2357 (XT) 2378 (XT+) 2364

(XZA+ 7 Seat) 1815 (XZA+ 6 Seat) Gross vehicle weight 2346 (XE) 2354 (XM) 2357 (XT) 2378 (XT+) 2364 (XZ 7 Seat) 2279 (XZ 6 Seat) 2385 (XZ+ 7 Seat) 2300 (XZ+ 6 Seat) 2386 (XMA) 2383 (XTA) 2395 (XTA+) 2386 (XZA 7 Seat) 2301 (XZA 6 Seat) 2400 (XZA+ 7 Seat) 2315 (XZA+ 6 Seat) 270  TECHNICAL INFORMATION VEHICLE DIMENSIONS NOTE: Dimensions are in mm Unladen condition 271  TECHNICAL INFORMATION AGGREGATE IDENTIFICATION NUMBERS Lo VIN plate near Front passenger seat (LHS Transaxle No. Punching (AT) outer side) ’ Transmission Sticker number (AT) Chassis No. punching near driver seat Transaxle No. Punching (MT) (AT) (RHS outer side) 272  CAR CARE Your vehicle is subjected to many external influences such as climate, road condi- tions, industrial pollution and proximity to the sea. These conditions demand regular care of the vehicle body. Dirt, insects, bird droppings, oil, grease, fuel and stone chip- pings should be removed as soon as pos- sible. Washing Following these tips while washing your

pings should be removed as soon as pos- sible. Washing Following these tips while washing your vehicle. 1. Always wash your vehicle in shade and the surface is at room tempera- ture. 2. Wash with mild vehicle wash soap like ‘Car Shampoo’ and use a soft bristle brush, sponge or soft cloth and rinse it frequently while washing to avoid scratches. 3. To avoid scratches, please wear soft gloves. Remove finger rings, nails, wrist watch while washing. 4. To remove stubborn stains and con- taminants like tar, use turpentine or cleaners like ‘Stain remover’ which are safe for paint surfaces. 5. Avoid substances like petrol, diesel, kerosene, benzene, thinner, acids or other solvents that cause damage to paint. 6. Dry your vehicle thoroughly to prevent any damp spots. 7. Rinse all surfaces thoroughly to pre- vent any traces of soap and other cleaners as this may lead to the forma- tion of stains on the painted surface later. NOTE + Avoid parking the car under trees without proper cover, it

on the painted surface later. NOTE + Avoid parking the car under trees without proper cover, it will reduce the amount of bird droppings, tree sap and pollen contact on paint sur- face. Regularly remove the twigs, leaves and vegetation near the windshield areas, to avoid water stagnation. + Always close the sunroof while washing the vehicle. CAR CARE A\ WARNING Do not direct high pressure washer fluid/ water jets (Pressure above 0.5 bar) at electrical devices and connecter during washing. This is to prevent mal- function / failure of electrical system due to water ingress. After drying the vehicle, inspect it for chips and scratches that could allow corrosion to start. Apply touch up paint where nec- essary. Cleaning of Carpets Vacuum clean the carpet regularly to re- move dirt. Dirt will make the carpet wear out faster. Periodically, shampoo the car- pet to keep it looking new. Use carpet cleaners (preferably foam type). Follow the instructions that come with the cleaner. Apply it

cleaners (preferably foam type). Follow the instructions that come with the cleaner. Apply it with a sponge or soft brush. Keep the carpeting as dry as possible by not adding water to the foam. 273  CAR CARE Avoid wiping of painted surface in dry condition as it may leave scratches on the painted surface. Cleaning of Windows, Front and Rear Glasses Clean the windows inside and outside with commercially available glass cleaners. This will remove the haze that builds up on the inside of windows. Use a soft cloth or paper towels to clean all glass and plastic surfaces. Waxing Waxing and polishing is recommended to maintain the gloss and wet-look appear- ance of your paint finish. 1. Use good quality polish and wax for your vehicle. 2. Re-wax your vehicle when the water does not slip off the surface but col- lects over the surface in patches. 274 Polishing Polishes and cleaners can restore shine to the painted surface that has oxidized and become dull. They normally contain mild abrasives

to the painted surface that has oxidized and become dull. They normally contain mild abrasives and solvents that remove the top layer of the finish coat. Polish your ve- hicle, if the finish does not regain its origi- nal shine after using wax. Interior Fabric Cleaning Tips 1. Stains should be treated immediately. If left for a long time, they can leave a permanent mark. 2. Cleaning the stains immediately is im- portant especially for stains, which contain artificial colors in the stain cre- ating liquid or semisolid substance. The colorant may leave a stain if kept for longer time. 3. Stain should not be removed by rub- bing. As far as possible, try to blot or lift the stain with cloth or plastic spatula and then clean the remaining stain with cloth or sponge. 4. Ifthe stain has dried, then gently brush off the material and then press with damp cloth or sponge till it disappears. 5. Do not use household detergents to clean the fabric. 6. Always use clean cotton cloth for cleaning.

Do not use household detergents to clean the fabric. 6. Always use clean cotton cloth for cleaning. Paint Care Following guidelines will help you to pro- tect your vehicle from corrosion effectively. @ NOTE Avoid Spillage or Direct contact of Air freshener liquid/chemicals with painted plastic parts. These chemicals may cause damage to paint like blisters, peel off, wrinkles etc.  Proper Cleaning In order to protect your vehicle from corro- sion it is recommended that you wash your vehicle thoroughly and frequently in case: + There is a heavy accumulation of dirt and mud especially on the underbody. + Itis driven in areas having high atmos- pheric pollution due to smoke, soot, dust, iron dust and other chemical pol- lutants. + It is driven in coastal areas. * The underbody must be thoroughly pressure washed after every three months. + In addition to regularly washing your car, the following precautions need to be taken. Periodic Inspection + Regularly inspect your vehicle for any

precautions need to be taken. Periodic Inspection + Regularly inspect your vehicle for any damage in the paint film such as deep scratches and immediately get them repaired from an authorized service outlet, as these defects tend to accel- erate corrosion. * Inspect mud liners for damages. * Keep all drain holes clear from clog- ging. Proper Parking + Always park your vehicle in shade to protect it from harsh sunlight or in a well-ventilated garage so that there is no dampness on any part of the vehi- cle. Wiper Care + To prevent damage to the wipers or windshield, do not operate the wipers when the windshield is dry. + To prevent damage to the wiper arms and other components, do not attempt to move the wipers manually. CAR CARE FAST TAG FAST TAG is pasted on front windshield rom the inside. It enables Electronic toll collection. = a PAStag Do not attempt to rip or tamper the tag. It will disable the functionality of the tag. 275  CAR CARE VALUE CARE - AMC Value Care (AMC) is a fixed

disable the functionality of the tag. 275  CAR CARE VALUE CARE - AMC Value Care (AMC) is a fixed cost maintenance plan that guarantees protection against unexpected re- pairs & provides substantial savings through protection against inflation & price volatility of consumables ato vons | eEAVICE during the running of the vehicle. BEST VALUE Our customers can choose from Value Care Gold, Value Care Silver, Promise to Protect (P2P) and Protect plus plan as per the requirement & usage to ensure hassle free, reliable & economic mainte- nance of the vehicle. Coverage — Schedule Service and Wear & Tear. aS Advantage (Customer Benefits) * Price protection against rising prices of lubes and parts. VALUE CARE + Ahigher resale value for your vehicle. MO NTERSNCE FLARE + Peace of mind with Cashless repairs & services. + Vehicle servicing at a workshop of your choice pan India. * Covers Repairs including Wear & Tear parts viz. Brakes, Suspension, Wiper, Clutch, Brake Pads, Brake Liners etc. *

including Wear & Tear parts viz. Brakes, Suspension, Wiper, Clutch, Brake Pads, Brake Liners etc. * Covers Scheduled maintenance services including Lubricants, Parts, Wheel Alignment and Balancing Labour. + Available at unmatched value.... Huge Savings!!! + Savings on Goods & Services Tax whenever vehicle attend under AMC. 276  CAR CARE Available Offers (Types of AMC) + Silver AMC * Gold AMC + Promise to Protect (P2P) + Protect Plus Silver AMC Value Care Silver Plan covers the following: * Scheduled maintenance services at periodic interval of Km for Labor, Parts & Consumables. Change of Oil Filter, Fuel Filter, Air Filter & Sedimenter. Change of Engine Oil, Transmission Oil (if applicable), and Power steering Oil*. Change of Coolant, Brake Oil & Clutch Fluid*. General Checkup, Wheel Alignment / Balancing (Excluding Balancing Weight). ARONS . Washing of Vehicle, Wheel greasing as applicable. Gold AMC The value care Gold Plan extends your scheduled maintenance cover to include any

Gold AMC The value care Gold Plan extends your scheduled maintenance cover to include any normal wear and tear items identified during the scheduled service and other vehicle parts that need to replace during the period of cover arising from proper and uniform usage. * Scheduled maintenance services at periodic interval of Km for Labor, Parts & Consumables. In addition to coverage mentioned under Silver AMC, the Gold AMC also covers Repairs or Replacement of Wear & Tear Items for both Parts & Labour. 277  CAR CARE 1. Brake Pads, Brake Liners, Wheel Cylinders. 2. Clutch Disc, Clutch Cover, Cables, Mountings. 3. Suspension Bush, Wiper Blades, Auxiliary Belt & other Wear & Tear Items. 4. Washing of Vehicle, Wheel greasing as applicable. Promise to Protect (P2P) Value Care — Promise to protect (P2P) is a maintenance plan that guarantees protection against unexpected wear & tear repairs to provide substantial saving through protection against inflation & price volatility during the running

substantial saving through protection against inflation & price volatility during the running of the vehicle. New Vehicle (under warranty vehicles) are eligible to avail this offer -Identified 13 wear & tear parts listed below Including Labour is covered in this AMC with the price range of 11 to 14 paisa per Km. *applicable to selected models* List of Covered Parts Clutch, Brake Pad, Brake Linings, Brake Disc, Wiper, Wheel Cylinder, Suspension Bushes, Engine Mountings, Ball Joints, Hoses, Auxiliary Belt, (Alternator & A/C Belt), Window Winder. Protect Plus The value care Protect plus Plan extends your scheduled maintenance cover to include coverage of P2P. It covers scheduled main- tenance services — labour, parts & consumables + Identified 13 wear & tear parts of P2P plan Including Labour. New Vehicle (under warranty vehicles) are eligible to avail this offer. *Applicable to selected models* 278  CAR CARE + AMC is available in the dealership from where you have purchased your

models* 278  CAR CARE + AMC is available in the dealership from where you have purchased your vehicle. + We strongly recommend purchase of AMC at time of purchase of your vehicle to get benefit for coverage of Scheduled Services and Wear & Tear parts. + The Dealer Service Marketing Executive shall explain to you the Terms and conditions, Coverage and Owner’s responsibility. * One Time payment is to be made to avail AMC offer. + P2P & Protect plus offer valid on selected models & may vary from Model to Model, Variant to Variant. + Please read the offer eBooklet for further details about coverage and exclusions of various AMCs. Owner’s Responsibility + Proper use, maintenance and care of the vehicle in accordance with the instructions contained in the Owner’s Manual and Service Booklet. The records of the same to be ensured in Owner’s Manual. + Retention of maintenance service bills. | / We have been explained the Terms and conditions, Coverage and Owner's responsibility by the Dealer

We have been explained the Terms and conditions, Coverage and Owner's responsibility by the Dealer Service Marketing Execu- tive. | | wish to avail | Do not wish to avail extended warrant policy. Customer’s Signature Dealer’s Signature 279  CAR CARE EXTENDED WARRANTY TATA MOTORS recommends the purchase of its extended warranty program. Coverage - Mechanical + Electrical TATA MOTORS | SERVICE BEST VALUE Benefits + Insures you against unforeseen break down repair bills. + Documentation is simple and hassle free. + Near cashless & speedy claim Term 2+1 Year or 1,15,000 Km whichever occurs first NRG ay OR UP TO 4 YEARS 2+2 Year or 1,30,000 Km whichever occurs first OR 2+3 Year for Unlimited Km Extended Warranty is available in the dealership from where you have purchased your vehicle. We strongly recommend purchase of Extended Warranty at time of purchase of your vehicle. Extended Warranty can be availed until warranty period from date of purchase of vehicle. The Dealer Service Marketing

can be availed until warranty period from date of purchase of vehicle. The Dealer Service Marketing Executive shall explain to you the Terms and conditions, Coverage and Owner's responsi- bility. Note * The 12 or 24 or 36 months extended warranty does not follow the 24 months Manufacturer’s warranty. + The extended warranty comes into force once the manufacturer’s warranty expires e.g. after 24 Months. + It is more restrictive as by the time it comes into force the vehicle is already 24 months old. 280  CAR CARE What is Covered? * Mechanical / Electrical break down as defined in this warranty and confirmed by the dealer within the stipulated terms and condi- tions. + TATA MOTORS dealer shall either rep air or replace any part found to be defective with a new p art or an equivalent at no cost to the owner for p arts or labour. * Such defective parts which have been replaced will become property of TATA MOTORS PASSENGER VEHICLE LIMITED. * Comprehensive list of parts covered is mentioned

of TATA MOTORS PASSENGER VEHICLE LIMITED. * Comprehensive list of parts covered is mentioned in the page 9-12 of the Extended Warranty Booklet. What is not covered? Please refer the Extended Warranty Booklet for details of the exclusion list. Owner’s Responsibility + Proper use, maintenance and care of the vehicle in accordance with the instructions contained in the Owner’s Manual and Service Booklet. The records of the same to be ensured in Owner’s Manual. + Retention of maintenance service bills. | / We have been explained the Terms and conditions, Coverage and Owner's responsibility by the Dealer Service Marketing Execu- tive. O | wish to avail | Do not wish to avail extended warrant policy. Customer’s Signature Dealer’s Signature 281  CAR CARE VALUE ADDED SERVICES Why are Corrosion Protection Waxes necessary? Le Wi = RTH Corrosion is caused by: wy uU Water / salt water acid rain & atmospheric fallouts. BA DAHL Critical areas are: CAR CARE 1h ee 4 Aut Cavities: joints, crevices,

atmospheric fallouts. BA DAHL Critical areas are: CAR CARE 1h ee 4 Aut Cavities: joints, crevices, spot welds, underbody ror * Corrosion is the most important factor when we talk about the vehicle life. If you treat your car you can prolong the life. + It is very dangerous to drive around in a corroded vehicle. + The corrosion creeps onto the vehicle from the inside and from the outside. The most dangerous kind of corrosion is often not dis- covered until it is too late. Benefits of Anti - Rust Treatment: + Aprofessionally applied range of world class products offering real value to the new and used vehicle customer. + The treatment has been developed to withstand the harshest environmental and climatic conditions (rust. Pollutants, stone and gravel impact, etc.) + Insulate cabin space from external noises. + Expensive tin work and Denting / Painting avoided. + Higher resale value for the vehicle. + Higher safety — uncorroded vehicle + 10 free checkups available 282  CAR CARE TATA

the vehicle. + Higher safety — uncorroded vehicle + 10 free checkups available 282  CAR CARE TATA MOTORS has tied up with M/s Wurth, M/s Autokrom, M/s 3M India Lt d & M/s Bardahl for these world class treatment at af- fordable prices. These treatments are available in all authorized workshops. The Dealer Service Marketing Executive will explain to you the benefits and terms and conditions of this treatment. | / We have been explained the Benefits, Terms and conditions and the prices of these treatments by the Dealer Service Marketing Executive. | | wish to avail | Do not wish to avail extended warrant policy. Customer’s Signature Dealer’s Signature 283  CAR CARE VEHICLE EXTERIOR ENRICHMENT . . 7 Ba ae Why Vehicles are Painted? w Wu RTH + For Corrosion protection of the metal surfaces. + Ease of application from other corrosion protection treatments. * Cheaper than other corrosion protection methods eg. Galvanizing, anodizing. Aut a SA CARE. + For decoration and identification. Kron.

methods eg. Galvanizing, anodizing. Aut a SA CARE. + For decoration and identification. Kron. Various Environmental Hazards Affecting Paints Environmental hazards: destroy your vehicle’s finish. Even as your new vehicle rolls off the assembly line, the paint is not protected. The Enemy Ultraviolet Rays, Pollution, Tree Sap, Bird Droppings, Car Wash Chemicals, Road Salt, Acid Rain. Benefits: Vehicle Exterior Enrichment + Removal of medium scratches, orange peel, oxidation, dust nibs etc. & swirl marks from painted surface. + Restoration of original gloss levels, UV protection after gloss is restored. * Cleaning & dressing of tyres, Bumpers & all exterior plastic moldings/trims. TATA MOTORS has tied up with M/s Autokrom, M/s 3M & M/s Wurth for this world class treatment at affordable prices. This treatment is available in all authorized workshops. The Dealer Service Marketing Executive will explain to you the benefits and terms and con- ditions of this treatment. 284  CAR CARE VEHICLE

explain to you the benefits and terms and con- ditions of this treatment. 284  CAR CARE VEHICLE INTERIOR ENRICHMENT Why protect your new car’s fabric interior? * Someone will spoil your vehicle’s fabric carpet or seats. + Asignificant detractor from your vehicle’s resale value. + Apermanent stain on your vehicle’s interior fabric. The Enemy Drink Spills - Food Stains - Mud - Ultraviolet Rays Pets - Traffic Benefits: Vehicle Interior Enrichment + Removal of medium stains and dirt from all interior parts of the car i.e., carpet, upholstery and roof lining. * Cleaning of windshield and all windows (inside and outside). + Dressing of all internal plastics (e.g.: door pad trims) and rubber parts. + The treatment involves cleaning and dressing of all parts of the exposed interiors. * Specialised protection for seat fabric from liquid spills. TATA MOTORS has tied up with M/s Wurth and M/s Autokrom for this world class treatment at affordable prices. This treatment is available in all

Autokrom for this world class treatment at affordable prices. This treatment is available in all authorized workshops. The Dealer Service Marketing Executive will explain to you the benefits and terms and conditions of this treatment. | / We have been explained the Terms and conditions, Coverage and Owner's responsibility by the Dealer Service Marketing Execu- tive. O | wish to avail | Do not wish to avail extended warrant policy. Customer’s Signature Dealer’s Signature 285  286  VEHICLE WARRANTY: TERMS AND CONDITIONS We WARRANT each TATA SAFARI vehicle and parts thereof manufactured by us to be free from defect in material and work- manship subject to the following terms and conditions: 1. This warranty shall be for a period of 2 years from the date of sale of the car or a mileage of 1, 00,000 Kms which- ever occurs earlier. Our obligation under this warranty shall be limited to repairing or replacing, free of charge, such parts of the car which, in our opinion, are defective, on the

or replacing, free of charge, such parts of the car which, in our opinion, are defective, on the car being brought to us or to our dealers within the period. The parts so repaired or replaced shall also be warranted for quality and workmanship but such warranty shall be co-terminus with this original warranty. Any part which is found to be defective and is replaced by us under the warranty shall be our property. As for such parts as Tyres, Batteries, Audio and / or Video equipment (if any), etc. not manufactured by us but supplied by other parties, this warranty shall not apply, but buyers of the car shall be entitled to, so far as permissible by law, all such rights as we may have against such parties under their warranties in respect of such parts. This warranty shall not apply if the car or any part thereof is repaired or altered otherwise than in accordance with our standard repair procedure or by any person other than from our sales or service establishments, our authorized

procedure or by any person other than from our sales or service establishments, our authorized dealers, WARRANTY - TERMS AND CONDITIONS service centres or service points in any way so as, in our judg- ment which shall be final and binding, to affect its reliability, nor shall it apply if, in our opinion which shall be final and bind- ing, the car is subjected to misuse, negligence, improper or inadequate maintenance or accident or loading in excess of such carrying capacity as certified by us, or such services as prescribed in our Owner’s Manual are not carried out by the buyer through our sales or service establishments, our author- ized dealers, service centres or service points. . This warranty shall not apply to the replacement of nor- mal wear parts, including without limitation, drive belts, hoses, wiper blades, fuses, clutch disc, brake shoes, brake pads, cables and all rubber parts (except oil seal and glass run). . This warranty shall not cover any inherent normal deteriora-

(except oil seal and glass run). . This warranty shall not cover any inherent normal deteriora- tion of the car or any of its parts arising from the actual use of the car or any damage due to negligent or improper operation or storage of the car. . This warranty shall not apply to normal maintenance services like oils & fluid changes, head lamps focusing, fastener retight- ening, center hub cap/wheel cover. wheel balancing and align- ment, tyre rotation, adjustment of valve clearance, fuel timing, ignition timing and consumables like bulbs, fuel, air & oil filters and gas leaks in case of air conditioned cars. 9. This warranty shall not apply to any damage or deterioration caused by environmental pollution or bird droppings. Slight ir- 287  WARRANTY - TERMS AND CONDITIONS 10. 11. 12. 13. 14. regularities not recognized as affecting the function or quality of the vehicle or parts, such as slight noise or vibration, de- fects appearing only under particular or irregular operations are

as slight noise or vibration, de- fects appearing only under particular or irregular operations are items considered characteristics of the vehicle. This warranty shall be null and void if the car is subjected to abnormal use such as rallying, racing or participation in any other competitive sport. This warranty shall not apply to any repair or replacements as a result of accident or collision. This warranty is expressly in lieu of all warranties, whether by law or otherwise, expressed or implied, and all other obliga- tions or liabilities on our part and we neither assume, nor au- thorize any person to assume on our behalf, any other liability arising from the sale of the car or any agreement in relation thereto. The buyer shall have no other rights except those set out above and have, in particular, no right to repudiate the sale, or any agreement or to claim any reduction in the purchase price of the car, or to demand any damages or compensation for losses, incidental or indirect,

price of the car, or to demand any damages or compensation for losses, incidental or indirect, or inconvenience or conse- quential damages, loss of car, or loss of time, or otherwise, incurred or accrued. Any claim arising from this warranty shall be recognized only if it is notified in writing to us or to our authorized dealer with- out any delay soon after such defects as covered & ascer- tained under this warranty. This warranty is fully transferable to subsequent vehicle 288 owner. Only unexpired remaining period of warranty ap- plies. 15. We reserve our rights to make any change or modification in design of the car or its parts or to introduce any improvement therein or to incorporate in the car any additional part or ac- cessory at any time without incurring any obligation to incor- porate the same in the cars previously sold.  ENVIRONMENTAL SAFETY TATA MOTORS PASSENGER VEHICLE LIMITED is committed to produce vehicles using environmentally sustainable technology. A number of

LIMITED is committed to produce vehicles using environmentally sustainable technology. A number of features have been incorporated in TATA MOTORS passenger vehicles which have been designed to ensure environmental compatibility throughout the life cycle of the vehicle. We would like to inform you that your vehicle meets emission norms and this is being reg-ularly validated at the manufacturing stages. As a user you too can protect the environment by operating your vehicle in a proactive manner. A lot depends on your driving style and the way you maintain your vehicle. We have given a few tips for your guidance. Driving + Avoid frequent and violent acceleration. + Donot carry any unnecessary weight in the vehicle as it over- loads the engine. Avoid using devices requiring high power consumption during slow city traffic condition. + Monitor the vehicle’s fuel consumption regularly and if show- ing rising trend get the car immediately attended at the Com- pany’s Authorised Service

if show- ing rising trend get the car immediately attended at the Com- pany’s Authorised Service Outlets. * Switch off the engine during long stops at traffic jams or sig- nals. If you need to keep the engine running, avoid unneces- sary revving it up or stopping and starting. + Itis not necessary to rev up the engine before turning it off as it unnecessarily burns the fuel. ENVIRONMENT SAFETY * Shift to higher gears as soon as possible. Use each gear upto 2/3rd of maximum engine speed. + Achart indicating gear shifting speeds is given in this book. Maintenance + Ensure that recommended maintenance is carried out on the vehicle regularly at the Authorised Service Outlets. + As soon as you see any leakages of oil or fuel in the vehicle we recommend to get it attended immediately. + Use only recommended grades and specified quantity of lu- bricants. + Get your vehicle checked for emission periodically by an au- thorised dealer. + Ensure that fuel filter, oil filter and breather are

periodically by an au- thorised dealer. + Ensure that fuel filter, oil filter and breather are checked peri- odically and replaced, if required, as recommended by TATA MOTORS. + Donot pour used oils or coolants into the sewage drains, gar- den soil or open streams. Dispose the used filters and batter- ies in compliance with the current legislation. + Do not allow unauthorized person to tamper with engine set- tings or to carry modifications on the vehicle. + Never allow the vehicle to run out of fuel. ¢ Parts like brake liners, clutch discs should be vacuum cleaned. Do not use compressed air for cleaning these parts which may spread dust in the atmosphere. 289  ENVIRONMENT SAFETY While carrying out servicing or repairs of your vehicle, you should pay keen attention to some of the important engine aggregates and wiring harness which greatly affect emis- sio 1. SC ONAanPPrwnd 10. 11. n. These components are: Fuel injection equipment- pump, rail, injectors, nozzles and high-pressure

n. These components are: Fuel injection equipment- pump, rail, injectors, nozzles and high-pressure pipes. Air Intake & Exhaust system, especially for leakages. Cylinder head for valve leakage. All filters such as air, oil and fuel filters (check periodically). Turbocharger. EGR Valve & Cooler Intake throttle Electrical connections. If the ‘Check Engine lamp’, ‘MIL’ , ‘SCR’ or ‘DPF’ lamp contin- uously glows, please take the vehicle to a TATA MOTORS Au- thorized Dealer/Service Center. Exhaust After Treatment System parts. EMS wiring harness i.e. electrical connections to all sensors and actuators. This Owner’s manual contains further information on driving pre- cautions and maintenance care leading to environment protec- tion. Please familiarize yourself with these aspects before driving. 290  TATA MOTORS Te TATA SOUL on é a © expLone®® SOUL - SUV OWNER’S UNITED LEAGUE. JOIN TODAY! Become a part of the Exclusive Tata SUV Owner's Community - SOUL and join the fellow Explorers to escape

a part of the Exclusive Tata SUV Owner's Community - SOUL and join the fellow Explorers to escape your day to day routine and ignite your Spirit of Adventure by participating in Exciting Expeditions and Discovering Unexplored Destinations. What's more? You also get to avail exciting benefits and privileges specially curated to enrich your journey with your Tata SUV. To register, visit our website www.souLtatamotors.com or call - 1800-209-8282 To #DriveWithSOUL, follow us on: ‘ataMotorsGroup 291  292  Customer’s copy Dealer’s copy a TATA PDI Coupon SRARFARI Pre Delivery Inspection <p TATA PDICoupon SRFARI Pre Delivery Inspection AVAIL ALL SERVICES TO GET BENEFIT OF WARRANTY This Coupon entitles for free labour jobs.(Refer maintenance section) Owner’s Name: Owner’s Name: VIN No.: VIN No.: Engine / Motor No.: Engine / Motor No.: Reg. No.: ODO Reading: Reg. No.: Date of Sale: Date of Service: ODO Reading: Service Dealer code: Date of Service: | hereby certify that the PDI has been carried

ODO Reading: Service Dealer code: Date of Service: | hereby certify that the PDI has been carried out to my entire satisfaction. Service Dealer’s Stamp & Signature Customer’s Signature Service Dealer’s Stamp & Signature (Free Service coupons are valid at all TATA Authorized Service Centers in India)   Customer’s copy ep DLA 1s Free Service Coupon SAFRRI Valid for 1000 - 2000 kms. OR 2 months, Whichever is earlier Owner’s Name: VIN No.: Engine / Motor No.: Reg. No.: ODO Reading: Date of Service: Service Dealer’s Stamp & Signature Dealer’s copy ap , tata 1**Free Service Coupon @RFARRI Valid for 1000 - 2000 kms. OR 2 months, whichever is earlier. AVAIL ALL SERVICES TO GET BENEFIT OF WARRANTY This Coupon entitles for free labour jobs.(Refer maintenance section) Owner's Name: VIN No.: Engine / Motor No.: Reg. No.: ODO Reading: Date of Sale: Date of Service: Service Dealer code: | hereby certify that the service has been carried out to my entire satisfaction. Customer’s Signature Service

that the service has been carried out to my entire satisfaction. Customer’s Signature Service Dealer’s Stamp & Signature (Free Service coupons are valid at all TATA Authorized Service Centers in India)   Customer’s copy wp aL 2" Free Service Coupon SAFARI Valid for 7000 - 8000 kms. OR 6 months, whichever is earlier Owner’s Name: VIN No.: Engine / Motor No.: Reg. No.: ODO Reading: Date of Service: Service Dealer’s Stamp & Signature Dealer’s copy ap , tata 2" Free Service Coupon S@RFARI Valid for 7000 - 8000 kms. OR 6 months, whichever is earlier. AVAIL ALL SERVICES TO GET BENEFIT OF WARRANTY This Coupon entitles for free labour jobs.(Refer maintenance section) Owner's Name: VIN No.: Engine / Motor No.: Reg. No.: ODO Reading: Date of Sale: Date of Service: Service Dealer code: | hereby certify that the service has been carried out to my entire satisfaction. Customer’s Signature Service Dealer’s Stamp & Signature (Free Service coupons are valid at all TATA Authorized Service Centers in

Stamp & Signature (Free Service coupons are valid at all TATA Authorized Service Centers in India)   Customer’s copy wp aL 3" Free Service Coupon SAFRRI Valid for 14,500 — 15,500 kms. OR 12 months, whichever is earlier Owner’s Name: VIN No.: Engine / Motor No.: Reg. No.: ODO Reading: Date of Service: Service Dealer’s Stamp & Signature Dealer’s copy ap , tata 3 Free Service Coupon SRFARI Valid for 14,500 — 15,500 kms. OR 12 months, whichever is earlier. AVAIL ALL SERVICES TO GET BENEFIT OF WARRANTY This Coupon entitles for free labour jobs.(Refer maintenance section) Owner's Name: VIN No.: Engine / Motor No.: Reg. No.: ODO Reading: Date of Sale: Date of Service: Service Dealer code: | hereby certify that the service has been carried out to my entire satisfaction. Customer’s Signature Service Dealer’s Stamp & Signature (Free Service coupons are valid at all TATA Authorized Service Centers in India)

