www.tatatiago.com FROM TATA MOTORS  « TATA TlAiGO OWNER’S MANUAL TATA MOTORS  CUSTOMER ASSISTANCE In our constant endeavour to provide assistance and complete service backup, TATA MOTORS has established an all India cus- tomer assistance centre. In case you have a query regarding any aspect of your vehicle, our Customer Assistance Centre will be glad to assist you on our Toll Free no. 1800 209 7979 a DOORSTEP SERVICE Mosiie ankice DIAGNOSTIC EXPERT ORIGINAL PARTS MNMOFEHEE HUALUY You can also approach nearest TATA MOTORS dealer. A sepa- rate Dealer network address booklet is provided with the Owner’s manual. TATA MOTORS 24X7 Roadside Assistance Program offers tech- nical help in the event of a breakdown. Call to the toll-free Roadside Assistance. For additional information, refer to "24X7 Roadside Assis- tance" section in the Owner’s manual. o QUICK REPAIR serum We mens ONLINE SERVICE APP RTHOENT ara cuce EXTENDED WARRANTY wr 10-4 vERKS VALUE CARE MAINTEWAMOE PLANE RAPID REPAIR PANOR

RTHOENT ara cuce EXTENDED WARRANTY wr 10-4 vERKS VALUE CARE MAINTEWAMOE PLANE RAPID REPAIR PANOR HAD AERA  Dear Customer, Welcome to the TATA MOTORS family. We congratulate you on the purchase of your new vehicle and are privileged to have you as our valued customer. We urge you to read this Owner's Manual carefully and familiarize yourself with the equipment descriptions and operating instruc- tions before driving. Always carry out prescribed service / maintenance work as well as any required repairs at an authorized TATA MOTORS Dealers or Authorized Service Centre’s (TASCs). Use only genuine parts for continued reliability, safety and performance of your vehicle. You are welcome to contact our dealer or Customer Assistance toll free no. (1800 209 7979) in case of any query or support required. We wish you a safe and pleasant driving experience. TATA MOTORS Bombay House, 24, Homi Modi Street, Hutatma Chowk, Fort, Mumbai — 400001  CUSTOMER ASSISTANCE Before driving, read this Owner’s

Street, Hutatma Chowk, Fort, Mumbai — 400001  CUSTOMER ASSISTANCE Before driving, read this Owner’s manual carefully and familiarize yourself with your vehicle. For your own safety and a longer vehicle life, follow the instructions, ‘Warnings’ and ‘Notes’ in this manual. Ignoring them could result in damage to the vehicle or personal injury to you or others. The Owner’s manual and other booklets are important documents and should always be kept in the vehicle. If you sell the vehicle, always pass on the documents to the new owner. This Owner's Manual describes all variants of the model and all standard/optional equipment of your vehicle available at the time of printing. Please note that your vehicle may not be equipped with all features described. TATA MOTORS Limited reserves the right to introduce changes in the design, equipment and technical features without any obligation to install them on the vehicles previously sold. The equipment in your vehicle may therefore differ from that

them on the vehicles previously sold. The equipment in your vehicle may therefore differ from that shown in the descriptions and illustrations. Do not carry out any modification including fitment of non-genuine accessories on your vehicle. Safety, handling, performance and durability, may otherwise be adversely affected and may violate government regulations. TATA MOTORS Limited accepts no liability for damage resulting from the modifications or use of non-genuine accessories. All rights reserved. The information in this manual shall not be copied, translated or otherwise reproduced, in whole or in part, without written permission from TATA MOTORS. © Copyright 2016 TATA MOTORS  CONTENTS [a Safety | Opening & Closing [a Dashboard & Features Important Information............... Flip Key..........ccseeeeeeeeneeeee eens Cockpit.......0...0..:ceeeeeeee sneer eeee Safe Driving.............::eeee 9 DOOMS..... 0... ceeeeeeeeeeeee eee eee eeee 23 Instrument Cluster.................. 30 Seat

9 DOOMS..... 0... ceeeeeeeeeeeee eee eee eeee 23 Instrument Cluster.................. 30 Seat Belts.......0...: eee 10 Windows. ..........0....cceeee eee 24 Driver Information Display........ 34 Child Restraint System (CRS)...13 Bonnet... Driver Information Settings....... 38 Anti-theft Device: Immobilizer...15 Tailgate and Fuel lid............... 26 Warning Lamps...............-.060++ 41 Child Lock..............00ceeeeeeee 16 Audio Reminders..................4. 46 Air Bags...........0.::eeeeeeeeeeeeeeee 17 Combi Switches..................4+ 47 TN = \> EEE 18 Fascia Switches...................04 49 EBD... 0. cceeeeeeeeeeeeeee teeters 18 Steering Wheel Switches.......... 50 Mic... Infotainment System................ 51  CONTENTS [s. Dashboard & Features | 4 | Stowage Areas Fs | Climate Control USB/AUX....... ccc e eee Power Socket...........0...:::0e8 51 Antenna..........000ccee cece cece eee 52 Roof Lamp.... Roof Grab Handles................. 53 Boot Lamp..............::c:eeeeeeeeee

eee 52 Roof Lamp.... Roof Grab Handles................. 53 Boot Lamp..............::c:eeeeeeeeee 53 Tag Holder...............::0eeeeeeee 53 Storage Compartments............ Glove BOX... cece ee eeeeeees 56 Pocket on Dashboard............... 56 Utility pockets on doors.... Center Console..................28 56 Tailgate Compartment............. 57 Card Holder...........0....:00cesee 58 HOOKS. 0.0.02... cee eee eeee cece eee eee 59 Air Vents & Distribution............ HVAC Controls....... Functions & Settings.  CONTENTS c=” 9 OC down Assistance Pre-Driving Checks...............0+4 67 Maintenance & Service............ 105 Emergency Equipment............... 83 Driving Tips..........c:eeeeeeeeeeees 68 Engine Compartmernt............... 106 Hazard Warning Switch.............. 84 Seat Adjustments... 71 Engine Oil/Coolant Level.......... 108 In Case of Flat Tyre........... eee 85 Rear View Mirrors. Battery. Jump Lead Starting... 88 SUN VISOMS.......eeeeeeeeeteeeeeeeeeeees 73 Spark

View Mirrors. Battery. Jump Lead Starting... 88 SUN VISOMS.......eeeeeeeeeteeeeeeeeeeees 73 Spark PIUQ.........ceeeeeeeeeeeeeeee 111 TOWING........:eeeeceeseeeeteeeeeeeeeeeee 90 Steering Wheel Adjustments.....74 TYPOS. oe eeeececeeeeseeteeeeeneteeeeseeeeaee 112 FUSES... eeeteeeeeeeee 91 Starting the Engine................. 75 Key Battery Replacement........115 Bulb Specification... we Gear Shifting & Driving.............. 76 On Board Diagnostic (OBD).....116 Bulb Replacement.............00005 98 Drive Modes..........0:ccccceeeeee 76 Service Instructions............... 117 24x7 Road Side Assistance.....101 Braking/Parking Brake... Service Schedule...................118 Reverse Park Assist...........:00++: 80 Parking for Long Durations......124  CONTENTS | 3 | Technical Information Fuel Specification..........0..0.04 125 Lubricant Specification............. 127 Technical Specification............ 128 Vehicle Dimensions... Aggregate Identification Nos....132 Car Care and Value Added

128 Vehicle Dimensions... Aggregate Identification Nos....132 Car Care and Value Added Services Wiper Care.........ceeeeseneeees Value Added Services... Warranty — Terms and Conditions Environment Safety  Important Information In this Owner's Manual, you will find the text under the heading “WARNING” and “NOTE” which highlights important infor- mation. Pay particular attention to these highlighted messages. NOTE Indicates additional information that will assist you in gaining the optimum benefit and care for your vehicle. Indicates procedures or _ infor- mation that must be followed pre- cisely in order to avoid the possibil- ity of severe personal injury and se- rious damage to the vehicle. Safe Driving Safety consciousness not only ensures your safety and the safety of other road users, but it also helps to reduce the wear and tear on your vehicle. Safe driving depends on: e How quickly you make decisions to avoid an accident. e Your ability to concentrate. e How well you can see

you make decisions to avoid an accident. e Your ability to concentrate. e How well you can see and judge ob- jects. e How well familiar you are with your vehicle controls and its capabilities. NOTE Fatigue is a result of physical or mental exertion that impairs judg- ment. Driver fatigue may be due to inadequate sleep, extended work hours, strenuous work or non-work activities or combination of other factors. Take rest at regular inter- vals. SAFETY Safety Tips e Always take into account the road conditions, weather conditions, vehi- cle speed in order to prevent acci- dents. e Turn ‘ON’ the side indicators at least 30 meters before taking a turn or changing the lane. e Decelerate to a safe speed before taking turn. Do not apply brakes dur- ing cornering. e When overtaking other vehicles, watch out for the oncoming vehicle. Never drive under the influence of al- cohol or drugs. e If your vehicle is equipped with info- tainment/navigation system, set and make changes to your travel

your vehicle is equipped with info- tainment/navigation system, set and make changes to your travel route only when the vehicle is parked. e Program radio presets with the vehi- cle parked, and use your pro- grammed presets to make radio use quicker and simpler.  SAFETY Driving through water Do not drive through flooded areas. Judge the depth of water before driving through it. Otherwise, water may enter the vehicle interior or the engine com- partment. If at all the situation demands that you have to drive through water then; e Keep engine in higher RPM and crawl the vehicle in low gear. e Flowing or rushing water creates strong forces. Driving through flow- ing water could cause the vehicle to be carried away. Be very cautious about trying to drive through flowing water. e Lightly apply the brake pedal to dry the liners until the brakes work nor- mally once you are out of water. 10 Do not attempt to start the engine if vehicle gets flooded due to wa- ter. Tow the vehicle to a safe

not attempt to start the engine if vehicle gets flooded due to wa- ter. Tow the vehicle to a safe place. Contact a nearest TATA MOTORS Authorised Service Centre. Driving on a rainy day e Check wiper blades, lights and brakes for proper functioning and condition. e Check the tyre treads depth, the con- dition of the tread and tyre. e Avoid harsh braking and sharp turns. It may cause loss of control and lead toa skid. e Forslowing down, shift to lower gears and brake gently. e Keep lights ‘ON’ if visibility is poor. Driving through wet roads On wet road or during light showers, “Aq- uaplaning” can occur. “Aquaplaning” is the loss of direct contact between the road surface and the vehicle’s tires due to a water film forming between them. Steering or braking the vehicle can be very difficult, and loss of control can oc- cur. There is no hard and fast rule about aq- uaplaning. The best advice is to slow down when the road is wet. If you have driven for a long time in heavy rain without

is to slow down when the road is wet. If you have driven for a long time in heavy rain without braking, there may be a delayed reaction from the brakes when braking for the first time. You have to depress the brake pedal more firmly. Main- tain a greater distance from the vehicle in front.  Night driving Ensure that all light are working and windshield, window glasses are clean. Drive more slowly at night than in the daytime, as the visual range is re- stricted at night. Maintain a speed such that you can stop within illumi- nated distance of head lamps. Do not use the high beam unless in- evitable. It may dazzle the driver o the oncoming vehicle, thus causing an accident. Use head lamp main/dip beam to alert other road users on turns/ cross roads etc. Use side indicators for lane change or turning. Driving on gradients When climbing gradient, the vehicle may begin to slow down and show a lack of power. If this happens, shift to a lower gear and apply power smoothly so that there is

a lack of power. If this happens, shift to a lower gear and apply power smoothly so that there is no loss of traction. When driving down a hill, the engine braking should be used by shifting into a lower gear. Do not drive in neutral gear or switch off the engine. On long and steep gradients you must reduce the load on the brakes by shifting early to a lower gear. This allows you to take ad- vantage of the engine braking ef- fect and helps avoid overheating of service brakes resulting in reduced braking efficiency. SAFETY Driving on highway Stopping distance progressively _in- creases with vehicle speed. Maintain a sufficient distance between your vehicle and the vehicle ahead. For long distance driving, perform safety checks before starting a trip and take rest at certain intervals to prevent fa- tigue. 11  SAFETY Seat Belts Seat-belt is a safety device designed to secure the occupant travelling in the ve- hicle. TATA MOTORS strongly recom- mends that all the occupants should al-

travelling in the ve- hicle. TATA MOTORS strongly recom- mends that all the occupants should al- ways wear seat belts while travelling, ir- respective of journey duration. In normal driving, the belt lets you move freely in your seat. In case of an accident or sudden braking, inertia reel automati- cally tightens the belt to help restrain your body. Importance of wearing seat belt e Reduces the risk of being thrown in- side the vehicle in case of a colli- sion/sudden braking. e [twill help to keep you in the proper position when the air bag inflates. e Reduces the risk of harm in frontal/angular collisions that are not enough to activate the air bag. e Reduces the risk of harm in rollover, side or rear impact collisions. 12 Never wear seat belt over rigid or breakable objects, such as eye- glasses, pens, keys etc., as these might cause injuries. Make sure the seat belt is always itted comfortably. Place the seat backrest in a posi- ion that is as upright as possible. Make sure that

comfortably. Place the seat backrest in a posi- ion that is as upright as possible. Make sure that the seat belts are not twisted which can cause injury in a collision as the full width of the belt isn’t available to absorb the impact. This could cause serious injury. The maximum protection which seat belts can offer is only achieved if you are correctly seated. Do not bleach or dye seat belts as this may severely weaken them. In a crash they may not be able to provide adequate protection. Cleaning should be carried out us- ing mild soap and water only.  How to use seat belts 1. Buckle 2. Tongue 3. Press Button Pull the belt tongue across your body and insert it into the buckle until click sound is heard. . Check and ensure that the belt is not twisted. Position the lap portion of the belt as low as possible across your hip bone. Pull up the shoulder part of the belt to remove the slack. Make sure that the belt goes over your collar bones and across chest. . The lap portion of the

Make sure that the belt goes over your collar bones and across chest. . The lap portion of the belt should be worn across the pelvis, not across the waist. 6. SAFETY To unlatch the belt, press the red but- ton on the buckle. Guide the belt to the pillar as it retracts. The seat belts are intended for adults and each belt should be used by one occupant only. Use approved child restraint system for children. If the belt has withstood serious accident or shows signs of severe fraying /damage or cut, replace it with an approved belt kit. Do not make any modification that could change the effective- ness of the seat belts. If seat belt needs to be replaced, then it should be replaced, by TATA MOTORS Authorized Ser- vice Centre only. 13  SAFETY Seat belt hanger (if equipped) i Insert the rear seat belt tongue (except middle seat) in the slit (shown in fig.) pro- vided when notin use or during seat fold- ing. Make sure the belt webbing is not twisted. 14 Lap belt (for rear middle seat) Pull

seat fold- ing. Make sure the belt webbing is not twisted. 14 Lap belt (for rear middle seat) Pull the belt tongue to the desired length. Insert it into the buckle until you hear a click. Adjust the belt length. To lengthen the belt, hold the tongue at a right angle to the webbing and pull. To shorten, pull the loose end of the webbing. To unfas- ten, press the button in the buckle. Position the lap belt as low as pos- sible on your hip bone and not across the abdomen. If the lap belt is positioned across your abdo- men, it could cause serious inju- ries in a crash. Pregnant woman Pregnant women should also always use a lap-shoulder belt. The lap belt portion should be positioned as low as possible on the hip bones to avoid any possible pressure on the abdomen.  SAFETY Child Restraint System (CRS) TATA MOTORS strongly recommends the use of Child Restraint Systems (CRS) for all children up to age of 12 years. Children kept unrestrained while trav- elling, may face serious injuries in

up to age of 12 years. Children kept unrestrained while trav- elling, may face serious injuries in case of an accident. Selection and installation of CRS Always select the child restraint system that complies with latest safety stand- ards (AISO72 / ECE R44).The CRS are classified according to the child's size, height and weight. Select the appropri- ate CRS for your child. Ensure that the child fits properly in the CRS and CRS is securely installed in the vehicle. For installation, please refer CRS man- ufacturer’s instruction manual. Recommended CRS position The suitability of seat position for carriage of children and recommended category of child restraint system is shown in the table below. Mass Group Group Age Group Rear Center Up to 10 kg Up to 9 months Up to 13 kg Up to 24 months 9to18kg | 9months to 48 months 15to25kg | Approx. 3 to 7 years 22 to 36 kg Approx. 6 to 12 years X - Seat Position not suitable for children in this age group. U - Suitable for “universal” category

- Seat Position not suitable for children in this age group. U - Suitable for “universal” category restraints approved for use in this age group. NOTE Universal is a category in the AlSO72/ ECE R44 norm. 15  SAFETY NOTE When installing CRS in rear seat, push the front seat fully forward so that child’s feet do not touch the front seat back. NOTE If a child is to be seated in the front seat (if recommended only), push the vehicle seat fully rearward and keep the child in an approved for- ward facing CRS. Adjust the seat backrest to an upright position. Storage for CRS Always secure CRS safely in the vehicle or stow it in the luggage compartment if not being used. While the vehicle is in motion an unre- strained CRS could flung through the ve- hicle interior in the event of a sudden braking, maneuver or an accident. This could cause injuries to the travelling oc- cupants. 16 Replace CRS that has withstood any force during an accident as it could have sustained damage which may not be

that has withstood any force during an accident as it could have sustained damage which may not be visible. Check list 1. Never carry children on some- body’s lap when vehicle is in mo- tion. 2. Always secure children in the ve- hicle in a CRS. The CRS must be suitable for the child’s height, weight and build. 3. Observe the instructions from the manufacturer of the CRS and al- ways keep the instruction manual in the vehicle. 4. Always make sure that the seat belt routing is correct for children and they are sitting in the correct posi- tion. 5. Do not leave any toys or other ob- jects loose in the CRS or on the seat while the vehicle is in motion. Each CRS should be used for one child only.  SAFETY Anti-Theft Device- Immobilizer NOTE Immobilizer system is designed to pre- Use only E-key, the other should be vent vehicle theft by electronically disa- kept in a safe location. Note down bling the engine ignition system. The en- “key Tag no.” information (and gine can be started only

bling the engine ignition system. The en- “key Tag no.” information (and gine can be started only with vehicle’s keep it safe) which is required original Immobilizer ignition key which while getting new/spare keys. Re- has an electronic identification pro- member that it is not possible to prepare new/spare keys without the “key Tag number.” Take pre- caution about E-key, as without E- key vehicle cannot be started. grammed code. Vehicle State Meaning / Function of the state Immobilizer Lamp Status Ignition OFF Blinking Locked Vehicle Immobilized and awaiting electronic key Vehicle Condition Ignition ON OFF Unlocked Normal condition and ready to start the vehicle Ignition ON ON Locked - Problem with key (Wrong key used to start vehicle) - Problem with Immobilizer system. Contact a TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre Ignition ON Blinking Unlocked - Contact a TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre immediately 17  SAFETY E- Key An E-Key is an electronic access and au- thorization system

Centre immediately 17  SAFETY E- Key An E-Key is an electronic access and au- thorization system which is provided as a standard feature on your vehicle. Unlocking principle The transponder which is built into the ignition E-Key carries a unique identifica- tion code. The vehicle unlocks when the code on the E-Key matches with the code on the Engine Management Sys- tem (EMS). Engine starting When the key is inserted and the ignition is switched ‘ON’, all codes are communi- cated within E-Key, Immobilizer and EMS. The engine will start only if all the codes match. 18 Loss of keys If one of the keys is lost, contact your nearest TATA MOTORS authorised dealer immediately. e Donotturn ‘ON’ ignition switch by using E-key with any type of metal wound around its grip or in con- tact with it. This may be detected as abnormal condition by immo- bilizer and prevent engine from starting. e Do not leave the E-key in areas of high temperature. The tran- sponder in it will behave abnor- mally when

leave the E-key in areas of high temperature. The tran- sponder in it will behave abnor- mally when reused. e Do not try to start the vehicle when the Immobilizer indicator lamp on the instrument cluster is glowing. In this condition the ve- hicle will not start and the vehi- cle’s battery will also be drained due to frequent cranking. Child Lock Both the rear doors of the vehicle are provided with a child proof lock. Push the lock lever located on vertical face of the door downward before closing the door. The door which has been locked by acti- vating the child lock cannot be opened from inside, it can be opened only from the outside. NOTE Lift the lock lever upward to deac- tivate the childproof lock when not required.  Air Bags - Supplemental Restraint System (if equipped) The driver’s front air bag is located be- hind the center pad of the steering wheel and the front passenger's front air bag is located on dashboard above glove box. Front air bags are designed to inflate in

front air bag is located on dashboard above glove box. Front air bags are designed to inflate in severe frontal collisions when the igni- tion switch is in the ‘ON’ position. Front air bags are not designed to inflate in rear impacts, side impacts, rollovers or minor frontal collisions, since they would offer no protection in those types of accidents. Remember, since an air bag deploys only one time during an accident, seat belts are needed to restrain occupants from further movements during the acci- dent. Therefore, an air bag is NOT a substitute for seat belts. To maximize your protec- tion, always wear your seat belts. In a frontal collision, the crash sensors detect and trigger the inflators. The in- flators inflate the air bags with nitrogen or argon gas. The movement of the driver and of the front passenger is cush- ioned when they make contact with the fully inflated airbag and the risk of injury to head and chest is reduced. You may hear a noise along with some smoke, dust

the risk of injury to head and chest is reduced. You may hear a noise along with some smoke, dust and smell of burnt propellant imme- diately after the air bag has inflated. DO NOT PANIC as this is normal and is not an indication of fire in the vehicle. SAFETY NOTE An air bag supplements, or adds to, the crash protection offered by seat belts. The driver and all pas- sengers must be properly re- strained by wearing seat belts at all times. Drive with the seat belt fastened correctly and in a position that is as upright as possible with your back against the backrest. Do not lean your head or chest close to the steering wheel or dashboard. Do not attach any objects to, or place any objects over, the steer- ing wheel or dashboard. These ob- jects may interfere with air bag op- eration or may be propelled by the air bag in the event of a crash. Ei- ther of these conditions may cause severe injury. 19  SAFETY NOTE (if equipped) If the Air bag warning tell-tale on the instrument cluster

injury. 19  SAFETY NOTE (if equipped) If the Air bag warning tell-tale on the instrument cluster stays ON while driving, there may be a prob- lem with the Air bag system. Con- tact TATA MOTORS Authorised Ser- vice Centre. In case of any frontal damage to your vehicle or any maintenance required to be performed should be done by TATA MOTORS Author- ised Service Centre only. Do not permit anyone else to do any service, inspection, mainte- nance or repair on any SRS com- ponents or wiring. Improper work on the SRS system will result in inadvertent deploy- ment of the air bag or malfunction- ing. 20 ABS regulates brake pressure in such a way that the wheels do not lock when you brake. This allows you to continue steering the vehicle when braking. NOTE When ABS is active, the driver will feel the brake pedal pulsating, which is normal. The stopping distance required for vehicles with ABS may be slightly more than conventional brake sys- tem but ABS will still offer the ad- vantage of

may be slightly more than conventional brake sys- tem but ABS will still offer the ad- vantage of helping you maintain di- rectional control. However, remember that ABS will not compensate for bad road or weather conditions or poor driver judgment. Drive within safety mar- gins, taking into consideration pre- vailing weather and traffic condi- tions. If the ABS warning lamp is ON while driving then there is a mal- function in the ABS system (the standard braking system will how- ever function) and the vehicle should be driven cautiously to the nearest TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre. Electronic brake force distribution (EBD) - (if equipped) EBD monitors and controls the brake pressure on the wheels to improve driv- ing stability while braking.  Flip Key 1. Unlock 3. Lock 2. Approach Light 4. Key blade in / out button Unlocking all doors To unlock all doors, press unlock push- button (1) once. Unlocking will be con- firmed by single flash of turn indicators. Approach light Press

(1) once. Unlocking will be con- firmed by single flash of turn indicators. Approach light Press approach light button (2) once, low beam, park and roof lamp will turn ‘ON’ for 60 seconds (default setting). This fea- ture helps to find and reach the parked vehicle or to reach home in dark/ cloudy condition after parking. Red LED will be flashed on the remote. To switch ‘OFF’ the approach lights, press and release the same button or it automatically turns ‘OFF’ after 60 seconds. Locking all doors To lock all doors, press lock push-button (3) once. Locking will be confirmed by two flashes of turn indicators. If lock button is pressed on the remote ey with the driver door open, locking-un- locking takes place with audible warning sound. If any other door is open, the vehicle gets jocked but indicators do not flash. Folding key blade in / out Press button (4) to flip out the key lade. For folding, press the button (4) and fold the key blade inside. OPENING AND CLOSING Key Blade should not

press the button (4) and fold the key blade inside. OPENING AND CLOSING Key Blade should not be folded without pressing the button. Also, it should not be forced in any direc- tion apart from folding direction to avoid damage to Flip Mechanism. Manual operation of central door locking / unlocking All doors can be locked / unlocked oper- ating driver door using either key blade from outside or knob from inside. 21  OPENING AND CLOSING Features Vehicle search In vehicle locked condition if lock button on remote key is pressed the turn indica- tors of vehicle flashes 4 times. Automatic activation of immobilizer If key is removed from ignition, the en- gine will be immobilized automatically even if you forget to lock the vehicle. Auto locking / unlocking of doors / auto relock Vehicle doors get automatically locked when all doors are closed and the vehi- cle speed crosses 10 kmph. When ignition key is taken out all the doors get automatically unlocked. Also, when unlocked with remote key

key is taken out all the doors get automatically unlocked. Also, when unlocked with remote key and if no door is opened within 30 sec- onds, vehicle doors get automatically locked. 22 Anti-grab / anti-scan coding The remote control set of this security system is protected against the use of devices called ‘scanners’ and ‘grabbers’ which can record and reproduce some types of remote codes. Sleep Mode If remote key is not used for more than a week then its functionalities will turn to sleep mode. In such a case, to activate the remote key functionalities, open the door mechanically with the key blade. NOTE In case any button of the key is ac- cidentally pressed for more than 25 seconds, the remote stops func- tioning till the time the button is pressed. The LED on the Remote also stops glowing. The function of the remote gets reinstated imme- diately when the user stops press- ing the push button of remote. Important Don’t operate Unlock push-button of re- mote while in the vicinity of

button of remote. Important Don’t operate Unlock push-button of re- mote while in the vicinity of your vehicle, as it could lead to an unintentional un- locking your vehicle. Don’t use discharged batteries in re- mote, as it could damage the remote. For battery replacement procedure refer maintenance section. Don’t remove the battery connection of the vehicle while the vehicle has been locked by remote.  OPENING AND CLOSING Doors Locking without a key from inside Opening the doors from inside All doors can be opened from inside. To open, pull the door opening knob (1) and then lever (2). Door locking / unlocking with key Driver door has separate locking facility. All doors can be locked or unlocked from outside using the key. All the doors can also be locked from in- side by pressing knob (1) on driver door and independently on other doors re- spectively. Insert the key and turn it clockwise to lock and counter clockwise to open the door. 23  OPENING AND CLOSING Windows NOTE Power

to lock and counter clockwise to open the door. 23  OPENING AND CLOSING Windows NOTE Power windows can be operated for 3 minutes in ‘IGN OFF’ position and when key is taken out. Power windows (if equipped) Individual switches Individual window winding switches have been provided on the front passen- ger and rear doors. 1. Front Window Winding Switch (Right) 2. Rear Window Winding Switch (Right) 3. Front Window Winding Switch (Left) 4. Rear Window Winding Switch (Left) 5. Inhibit Switch Glasses on all four windows of your vehi- cle can be operated by switches pro- vided on the main control panel located on the driver’s arm rest. They work only when the key is in the ‘IGN ON’ position. 24 Glasses are wound up by pulling the switch and are lowered by pressing. WARNING While raising the glass, take care to avoid fingers/hands getting trapped between glass and the frame. Inhibit switch Inhibit OFF - When switch is pressed, red light turns ‘ON’. The individual switches provided on rear and

OFF - When switch is pressed, red light turns ‘ON’. The individual switches provided on rear and front pas- senger door can be operated. It can also be operated from the switches on driv- er's arm rest. Inhibit ON - When switch is released, red light turns ‘OFF’. The individual switches provided on rear and front pas- senger door cannot be operated. Still it can be operated by using the switches on driver's arm rest.  Manual Window Winding (if equipped) Use window winder handle for lowering or raising up window glasses manually where power windows are not provided. Bonnet Opening 1. Ensure that the vehicle is in neutral gear with the parking brake applied. 2. Pull the bonnet release lever. The bon- net will pop up slightly. 7 3. Raise the bonnet slightly and with your finger slide the secondary lock lever lo- cated under the bonnet centre to the left side. OPENING AND CLOSING NOTE Make sure that the wiper arms are not raised before you lift up the bonnet to avoid damaging the wiper

sure that the wiper arms are not raised before you lift up the bonnet to avoid damaging the wiper arms and the bonnet. 4. Lift the bonnet up. Pull the bonnet stay rod from its clip and insert the free end into the slot. 25  OPENING AND CLOSING WARNING Tail Gate and Fuel Lid The stay rod can be hot enough to burn your finger right after driving. Touch the rod after it becomes cool enough. Insert the stay rod into the hole se- curely. If the rod drops off, your body may be caught below the bon- net. Closing 1. Toclose the bonnet, hold the bonnet by one hand, disengage the stay rod and clamp it back properly. 1. Tail Gate Opening Lever 2. Lower the bonnet close to the 2. Fuel Flap Opening Lever Always make sure that the tailgate is closed and latched securely. bumper, then let it drop down. Tail gate WARNING To open the tail gate, pull the lever (1) lo- Ensure that the bonnet is properly cated at the right hand side of the locked before driving or it can fly up driver’s side and lift the

at the right hand side of the locked before driving or it can fly up driver’s side and lift the tail gate. unexpectedly during driving. It can also be opened by using door key. The lock is located on the tail gate. For closing, pull the tail gate down and close it with a slight swing. 26  Fuel lid To open the fuel flap, pull the lever (2) located at the right hand side of the driver on floor. Open the fuel cap by turn- ing it in counter clockwise direction for fuel filling. For closing, close the fuel cap and gently push the fuel flap till it gets locked. WARNING Fuel vapour is extremely hazard- ous. Always switch ‘OFF’ the en- gine before refueling and never re- fill near sparks or open flames. Do not use cell phone while refueling. Do not continue adding fuel after the automatic shut ‘OFF’ function is operated if it is equipped on the fuel station. Overfilling the fuel tank could damage the fuel sys- tem. NOTE Remove the fuel filler cap slowly, and wait for any hissing to stop. The

the fuel sys- tem. NOTE Remove the fuel filler cap slowly, and wait for any hissing to stop. The fuel may be under pressure and may spray out. If fuel cap needs replacement, ensure that it is replaced by a genuine cap at TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre only. OPENING AND CLOSING 27  28  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES 1 A.C. Air vent (Side) 2 | Air Bag (PAB) - if fitted 3 A.C. Air vent (Middle) 4 | Hazard Warning Switch 5 | Combi-Switch 6 | Steering Wheel 7 | Instrument Cluster 8 Horn pad / Air Bag (DAB) - if fitted 9 | Steering Wheel Switches - if fitted 10 | Accelerator Pedal 11 | Brake Pedal 12 | Clutch Pedal 13 | Foot Rest 14 | Power Socket 15 | Cup Holder 16 | Parking Brake Lever 17 | Gear Shift Lever 18 | USB/AUX Port - if fitted 19 | HVAC Control panel 20 | Fascia Switches 21 nfotainment System - if fitted 22 | Glove Box 29  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Instrument Cluster — Version 1 Tachometer Speedometer Temperature set knob Mode knob Fuel Gauge Gauge Driver Information Display NOTE:

Speedometer Temperature set knob Mode knob Fuel Gauge Gauge Driver Information Display NOTE: All indicators shown may not be applicable to your vehicle. 30  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Instrument Cluster — Version 2 Tachometer Driver Information Display Speedometer Set knob Mode knob Fuel Gauge NOTE: All indicators shown may not be applicable to your vehicle. 31  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Speedometer Speedometer indicates the vehicle speed in km/h. NOTE At every key IN and ignition ON, the Instrument Cluster needles and gauges moves to MAX. and returns to '0' position. This is a welcome strategy and a self-check feature. Tachometer Tachometer indicates engine speed in revolutions per min (rpm). When engine is accelerated be- yond safe ‘rpm’, the tachometer pointer turns RED. In such case, re- duce the engine RPM immediately. Never drive the vehicle with engine in high ‘rpm’. This may cause se- vere engine damage. Fuel Gauge When the ignition switch is in “ON” posi- tion, fuel gauge gives an

vere engine damage. Fuel Gauge When the ignition switch is in “ON” posi- tion, fuel gauge gives an approximate in- dication of the amount of fuel in the fuel tank. “F” stands for full and “E” stands for empty. Version - 1 Version - 2 When fuel in the tank is near to empty position, low fuel warning telltale turns ‘ON’. Refill the tank as soon as possible. If fuel is not filled even after Low fuel warning telltale ‘ON’, first bar in fuel gauge will start blinking to indicate more severe low fuel warning. NOTE Check the fuel level when the vehi- cle is on level road. On inclines, curves, during braking and sudden acceleration due to the movement of fuel in the tank, the fuel level display may fluctuate or the low fuel warning lamp may illuminate earlier than usual.  Low fuel warning symbol will blink if there is any fault in the system. Take your vehicle to the nearest TATA MOTORS Authorised service station if the symbol starts blinking. Temperature Gauge (if equipped) When the ignition

service station if the symbol starts blinking. Temperature Gauge (if equipped) When the ignition switch is in the “ON” position, this gauge indicates the engine coolant temperature. The indicator should stay within the normal, accepta- ble temperature range between “H” and “C”. If the indicator approaches “H”, overheating is indicated by red LED bar. If the coolant temperature reading is very high, the warning tell-tale flashes with an audible buzzer. In this case, stop the vehicle, switch ‘OFF’ the engine and cool it down for some time. Contact a nearest TATA MOTORS Authorised Ser- vice Centre immediately for rectification. DASHBOARD AND FEATURES The red LED bar and high coolant temperature warning tell-tale indi- cates overheating that may damage the engine. Continuing to drive the vehicle when engine overheating is indicated can result in severe engine damage or fire. 33  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Driver Information Odometer System Image Description Indicates distance travelled by a

AND FEATURES Driver Information Odometer System Image Description Indicates distance travelled by a vehicle. The Odometer reading does not return to “O” when maximum value is reached, the display will freeze to maximum value. Trip meterA&B The trip meter can be used to measure the distance travelled on short trips or between fuel stops. It can be reset to “0” Trip meter reading becomes “0.0” after it crosses 9999.9 kms. Average Fuel Economy for Trip A and Trip B Displays “Average Fuel Economy” since last reset. Distance To Empty Indicates approximate distance that your vehicle can travel with available fuel in tank under current average fuel consumption rate and it displays as ‘km’. NOTE: DTE will provide rolling text warning as ‘rEFUEL’ below 25 km distance to empty. 34  Driver Information Instantaneous fuel Economy Clock Service reminder Gear indicator System Image DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Description The display shows the value of instantaneous fuel consumption only when the vehicle

Description The display shows the value of instantaneous fuel consumption only when the vehicle is moving. When the ignition switch is in the “ON” position, it shows the time. Indicates the number of days/kilometers in which service is due. If service is overdue, it will display “O” km or “O” days and spanner symbol will blink. Never reset the display between service intervals otherwise this may results in to incorrect readings. Information is retained in the service interval display also after the vehicle battery is disconnected. NOTE: This option is for indicative purpose only. Keep track of your odometer reading and follow the maintenance schedule. Indicates the current gear engaged. Up or down arrow will be dis- played, recommending whenever gear should be shifted to up or down. NOTE: If “F” is displayed it means ‘Fault’ condition. Contact a TATA MOTORS Authorised Service Centre. 35  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Driver Information Door Ajar System Image Description Applicable to XZ. All

DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Driver Information Door Ajar System Image Description Applicable to XZ. All four door and tail gate are indicated independently when respec- tive door or tail gate is open. Applicable to XT, XM, XE, XB. This warning will be indicated when driver door is open. NOTE: If any other door is open roof lamp will be ‘ON’ provided that roof lamp switch is in | position. 36  1. Instantaneous fuel economy (IFE) Monitor IFE bar graph to achieve better fuel economy. NOTE IFE will vary frequently as per driving pattern. IFE display does not show Fuel Economy of last drive. It indicates fuel economy of current Drive when Ignition is turned ‘ON’. The display does not show actual value unless vehicle is moving. The indication on the display may be de- layed if fuel consumption is affected by driving pattern. 2. Average fuel economy (AFE) Average Fuel Economy will reset to ‘0’ when respective Trip meter is reset. Average Fuel Economy will be displayed as ‘~.-‘ for initial 0.5 km

respective Trip meter is reset. Average Fuel Economy will be displayed as ‘~.-‘ for initial 0.5 km of respective trip. Once 0.5 km distance is covered, Average Fuel Economy will be displayed. Even after 0.5 km distance covered for particular trip, if Average Fuel Economy is displayed as ‘-.--‘, then take your vehi- cle to TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre. NOTE AFE value is estimate of fuel econ- omy. It may vary significantly based upon driving conditions, driving habits and condition of ve- hicle. Average Fuel Consumption will get Reset to ‘0’ when Battery is re- moved and refitted. DASHBOARD AND FEATURES 3. Distance to empty (DTE) It indicates approximate distance in ‘km’ that your vehicle can travel with available fuel in tank. DTE values may vary significantly based on driving conditions, driving habits, and condition of the vehicle. It is an estimate value of the available driving distance. NOTE If DTE is displayed as “--‘, then take your vehicle to TATA MOTORS Au- thorized

distance. NOTE If DTE is displayed as “--‘, then take your vehicle to TATA MOTORS Au- thorized Service Centre. The DTE will update with new value when fuel is added more than 4 Litres at a time. If low fuel warning light turns ‘ON’, fill the fuel tank immediately regardless the value of displayed DTE. 37  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Driver Information Settings (Version 1) PRESS MODE TRIPA& AVGA TRIP B& AVGB ODO & DTE AVG 16 Suma Mm PRESS MODE me §=000,5 5 in O INSTFE 30 peuuama ~ kr PRESS 'SET' FOR LONG TIME PRESS ‘SET’ FOR LONG TIME TO RESET TRIP METER & AVG TO RESET TRIP METER & AVG 38  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Driver Information Settings (Version 2) PRESS MODE HOME TRIPA& AVGA TRIPB&AVGB ODO & DTE AVG CC AGG Gum 1B.Sim ~ ih —————_> Ei Hit h< |) ———_> m o i km PRESS ‘SET’ FOR LONG TIME PRESS ‘SET' FOR LONG TIME TO RESET TRIP METER & AVG TO RESET TRIP METER & AVG 39  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Digital Clock Setting mh (Lp AM Oe CI1S.E ken L| E Digital clock appears on the DIS screen. To adjust

Clock Setting mh (Lp AM Oe CI1S.E ken L| E Digital clock appears on the DIS screen. To adjust the values in Hrs. Min. and AM/PM mode, Press ‘SET’ knob on In- strument Cluster. A delayed press on the ‘SET’ knob for selected value will confirm it and move towards next respective value. 40 Instrument Cluster Illumination For Instrument Cluster illumination level settings, it is necessary to turn the Park Lamp ‘ON’ and then Press the ‘SET’ knob on Instrument Cluster. Press ‘SET’ knob to change the illumina- tion intensity level in 5 steps. A delayed press on the ‘SET’ knob for a selected in- tensity will confirm it. The Clock and Instrument Cluster IIlu- mination settings should be done only when the vehicle is in stationary condition for safety purpose.  Warning Lamps Malfunction Indication Lamp (MIL) Check Engine Immobilizer Water in fuel (Diesel) Color Indicator = DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Remarks . Illuminates when ignition is switched ‘ON’. Once engine is started, it turns ‘OFF’. . It

Remarks . Illuminates when ignition is switched ‘ON’. Once engine is started, it turns ‘OFF’. . It remains ‘ON’ for any engine related fault that may increase emission levels of the vehicle beyond the regulatory norms. Con- tact a TATA MOTORS Authorised Service Centre for rectification. . Illuminates when ignition is switched ‘ON’. Once engine is started, it turns ‘OFF’. . Illuminates continuously if a fault arise in Engine Management System. Contact a TATA MOTORS Authorised Service Centre. . llluminates when the system disables engine start if the original key is not used. . Lamp blinks: Vehicle is in immobilized condition when key is not inserted. . Lamp ON: Problem with key/system. Contact a TATA MOTORS Authorised Service Centre. . lluminates when ignition is switched ‘ON’. Once engine is started, it turns ‘OFF’. . Iluminates continuously if excess water is accumulated in the fuel filter. Contact a TATA MOTORS Authorised Service Centre to drain the water immediately to avoid

filter. Contact a TATA MOTORS Authorised Service Centre to drain the water immediately to avoid serious damage to the fuel injec- tion system. 41  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Warning Lamps Indicator Glow Plug (Diesel) Turn Signal Remarks lluminates momentarily when ignition is switched ‘ON’ to indicate that the glow plugs are active. It will continuously illuminate when engine is getting preheated. Start the engine only after the indica- tor turns ‘OFF’. ndicates direction indicated by the turn signal. Blinks along with buzzer while operating left/right turn indicator only when ignition is switched ‘ON’. High Beam Low Oil Pressure lluminates when the high beam headlamps are switched ‘ON’ or lashed. 1. Illuminates when ignition is switched ‘ON’. Once engine is started, it turns ‘OFF’ once required oil pressure is achieved. 2. Illuminates continuously if there is insufficient oil pressure. Stop the vehicle as soon as safety permits and switch off the en- gine. Check engine oil level and

Stop the vehicle as soon as safety permits and switch off the en- gine. Check engine oil level and top-up if required. Contact TATA MOTORS assistance before starting the engine. Battery charging 42 Illuminates when ignition is switched ‘ON’. Once engine is started, it turns ‘OFF’. It will continuously illuminate when there is malfunction of charging system. Contact a TATA MOTORS Authorised Service Centre.  Warning Lamps Park Brake / Brake Fluid Low / ABS Fault / EBD Fault Indicator DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Remarks Illuminates momentarily when ignition is switched ‘ON’. Once park- ing brake is released, it turns ‘OFF’. If it remains ‘ON’, it indicates 1. Brake fluid level is low. 2. Park brake is applied & turns ‘OFF’ when it is released. 3. ABS/EBD system has a fault. Seat belt warning Indicates that seat belt is not fastened when ignition is ‘ON’. It will be continuously 'ON' if the seat belt is not fastened (above 4 kmph). When the vehicle speed goes above 25 kmph seat belt alarm will

belt is not fastened (above 4 kmph). When the vehicle speed goes above 25 kmph seat belt alarm will be audible. Airbag status (if applicable) uminates momentarily when ignition is switched ‘ON’. I It will continuously illuminate when there is malfunction of airbag (SRS) system. Contact a TATA MOTORS Authorised Service Centre immediately. Low Coolant Tempera- ture (if applicable) uminates momentarily when ignition is switched ‘ON’. I Illuminates when there is a fault in the EPAS. Contact a TATA MO- TORS Authorised Service Centre immediately. uminates momentarily when ignition is switched ‘ON’. uminates when engine coolant temperature is low, while it turns ‘OFF’ when engine coolant temperature is normal. 43  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Warning Lamps Indicator Remarks High Coolant Illuminates momentarily when ignition is switched ‘ON’. Temperature Illuminates when engine coolant temperature is very high and con- tinuously flashes along with buzzer if engine coolant temp. is ex- tremely high.

very high and con- tinuously flashes along with buzzer if engine coolant temp. is ex- tremely high. Switch off the engine and allow to cool. Contact a TATA MOTORS Authorised Service Centre immediately. ABS Illuminates momentarily when ignition is switched ‘ON’. Illuminates (if applicable) continuously if there is any malfunction in ABS. Normal braking sys- tem will be operational without assistance of ABS. Contact a TATA MOTORS Authorised Service Centre immediately. Low Fuel Amber Illuminates momentarily when ignition is switched ‘ON’. Illuminates when fuel level is low. 1S bar on fuel gauge will start blinking when fuel level is low. Refill the fuel tank as soon as possi- ble. IMPORTANT: The warning light will start flashing if there is any fault in the fuel system. Contact a TATA MOTORS Authorised Service Cen- tre immediately. 44  Warning Lamps ECO CITY Color Green Blue Indicator ECO DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Remarks ECO indicates Economy drive. This mode is used to achieve better fuel

AND FEATURES Remarks ECO indicates Economy drive. This mode is used to achieve better fuel economy. CITY mode is default mode. This mode is used to achieve optimum torque. 45  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Audio Reminders Key in reminder While leaving your vehicle, if you forget the key inside the vehicle in Ignition ‘OFF’ position, buzzer will provide audio warning. Remove Key to stop the warn- ing. Park lamp ‘ON’ reminder While leaving your vehicle, if you forget to turn ‘OFF’ the head lamps, buzzer will provide audio warning. Switch ‘OFF’ Park Lamps to stop the warning. Do not forget to turn ‘OFF’ your head lamps as it may drain your vehicle battery. Park brake ‘ON’ reminder If Park Brake is applied and vehicle is driven, telltale will turn ‘ON’ and buzzer will provide audio warning continuously. Disengage the park brake to stop audio warning. 46 Reverse gear reminder If Reverse Gear is engaged, audio warn- ing for 1 sec will alert you. Seat belt reminder If driver seat belt is not

is engaged, audio warn- ing for 1 sec will alert you. Seat belt reminder If driver seat belt is not fastened and ve- icle speed goes above 25 kmph, audio alarm will start and continue for 90 sec- onds. If driver seat belt is still not fas- tened within 90 seconds, audio alarm will continue for next 90 seconds. Seat elt telltale will remain continuously ‘ON’ when audio alarm is active.  Combi-Switch (RH Stalk) TES 1. Left Turn signal - Move the lever fully upward. 2. Right Turn signal - Move the lever fully downward. NOTE When the turn is completed, the signal will cancel and the lever will return to its normal position. . High beam - Move the lever forward to select the High Beam function. Pull the lever back to normal for low beam. . High beam Flash (spring return) - To flash the high beams pull the lever towards you from the normal. It will return to its normal position when you release it. . Headlamp Rotary Switch i) OFF Position All lamps will remain ‘OFF’. Rotate stalk to turn

it. . Headlamp Rotary Switch i) OFF Position All lamps will remain ‘OFF’. Rotate stalk to turn ‘ON’ the Parking lamps. ii) Parking Lamp iii) Low Beam Rotate stalk to turn ‘ON’ the Low Beam function. DASHBOARD AND FEATURES point where the turn signal light begins to flash, but the lever does not latch. The turn signal will flash 3 times automati- cally. 7. Head lamp leveling rotary switch Inner rotary switch on right hand stalk is provided for head lamp leveling. With the inner rotary switch, Head lamp leveling can be done with head lamp in Low Beam and in ‘ON’ position. Select cor- rect position before start of trip and ve- hicle is stationary. Depending upon the number of passengers and luggage in 6. Lane Change Signal To signal a lane change, move the lever slightly up or down respective to the the vehicle headlamp focus may change. This can be adjusted by rotating the knob to one of the 3 level positions. 47  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Combi-Switch (LH Stalk) 0) ‘OFF’ Position The

of the 3 level positions. 47  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Combi-Switch (LH Stalk) 0) ‘OFF’ Position The wiper is switched ‘OFF’. 1) Intermittent wipe Push the stalk upwards to operate inter- mittent wipe. Inner rotary switch on left hand stalk is provided for intermit- tent front wiper delay. The switch has 5 delay timers. 48 2) Slow Wipe Push the stalk towards position (2) for continuous slow wipe. 3) Fast Wipe Push the stalk towards position (3) for continuous fast wipe. 4) Flick wipe (spring return) Pull the stalk downwards and hold it for continuous wipe, the wiper continuously wipes across the wind- shield at low speed till the stalk is re- leased. 5) Front Windshield Washer e Pull the lever little longer, washer fluid will be sprayed on the windshield. e The windshield wipers operate for 3 cycles after the lever is released and 1 more cycle after 5 seconds. NOTE When you crank the engine, the supply to washer motor is momen- tarily cut off. 6) Rear Wash and Wipe (if equipped) Rear

the supply to washer motor is momen- tarily cut off. 6) Rear Wash and Wipe (if equipped) Rear Windshield / Wiper F and Washer cv Turn the rotary knob clockwise and re- lease to operate rear windshield wash and wipe. The windshield wipers operate Rear Wipe for 3 cycles. Turn the rotary knob counter irl clockwise such that it aligns its positions with arrow mark to operate rear wind- shield wiper continuously.  Rear Windshield / Washer Switch Turn the rotary knob counter clockwise such that it aligns its positions with arrow mark and hold it, to operate rear windshield wash and wipe. It will return to ‘Rear wipe’ position as soon as released and continue to wipe. WARNING If you operate wash and wipe func- tion for more than 15 seconds the controller cuts off the supply to washer motors to avoid overheat- ing. Fascia Switches and Wiper Fascia switches are provided on the cen- ter console above HVAC control panel 1% 29 (D3 4@ Lass | q aay 1. Rear Window demister Switch 2. Front fog lamp

above HVAC control panel 1% 29 (D3 4@ Lass | q aay 1. Rear Window demister Switch 2. Front fog lamp Switch 3. ECO mode Switch The switch turns the rear = window demister ON/OFF. It operates when engine is running. The system will Rear Window Demister (if equipped) DASHBOARD AND FEATURES be deactivated after 15 min of continu- ous operation. An indicator on the switch will be illumi- nate when the rear window demister is ‘ON’ Front Fog Lamps #0 (if equipped) In conditions where visi- bility is poor due to fog, snow or rain, the fog lamps improve visibility as well as making it easier for other road users to see you. It turns ‘ON’ when the front fog lamp switch is pushed in with ignition ‘ON’ and position and parking / head lamp is ‘ON’. An indicator on the switch will be illumi- nated when the front fog light is ‘ON’. ECO mode Switch (if equipped) oe Refer DRIVE MODES chapter in ‘STARTING and DRIVING’ sec- tion. 49  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Steering Wheel Switches (LHS) (if equipped)

and DRIVING’ sec- tion. 49  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Steering Wheel Switches (LHS) (if equipped) Volume - To increase (+) / decrease (-) volume of music system / radio. Mute / phone reject To reject or hang up a phone call. It is also used to mute the volume of music system / radio. Seek forward / backward To change radio channels. 50 Source - To select the required source in the infotainment (USB, AUX, AM, FM). NOTE For more information on steering wheel switches refer Infotainment manual. Mic Steering Wheel Switches (RHS) (if equipped) Phone receive A mic is provided on roof interior above driver seat position. This button is used to accept incoming call when a cell phone is connected via Bluetooth.  Infotainment System (if equipped) NOTE For more information on Infotain- ment system refer infotainment manual. Speakers (if equipped) Speakers and tweeters are provided on models with infotainment system. While provisions are given for music system and speakers on versions without info-

system. While provisions are given for music system and speakers on versions without info- tainment system. USB/AUX Port (if equipped) Connect your portable digital music play- ers, pen drives etc. to this socket for playing music tracks through the vehi- cles music system. DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Power Socket 4. | The power socket will work when the ig- nition switch is in the “ACC” or “ON” po- sition. This socket can be used to pro- vide 12V (10A) power for electrical ac- cessories. Use of inappropriate electrical ac- cessories can cause damage to your vehicle’s electrical system. Make sure that any electrical ac- cessories you use are designed to plug into this type of socket. 51  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Antenna (if equipped) Antenna is located on the roof. Turn an- tenna counter clockwise to remove from vehicle, if required. 52 Roof Lamp «x Oo Interior roof lighting lamp is provided on the roof with inbuilt switch. The switch has three positions: ON - The lamp will turn ‘ON’ as long

the roof with inbuilt switch. The switch has three positions: ON - The lamp will turn ‘ON’ as long as the switch is in this position. DOOR .-- In this position the lamp turns ‘ON’ with dim- oe ming when either of the doors are opened. When the last door is closed, the lamp will remain ‘ON’ for 25 sec and turns ‘OFF’ with dimming. This helps settling in the seat and in- serting the key in the ignition switch. When the key is turned to the ‘IGN’ po- sition, the lamp goes ‘OFF’ immedi- ately. OFF - In this position the lamp will remain ‘OFF’.  Roof Grab Handle Roof grab handles are provided on all seats except driver's seat. This helps in comfortable positioning of passengers during a journey. Boot Lamp (if equipped) Boot lamp is provided in the luggage compartment to illuminate the luggage area. Switch is provided on lamp to turn ‘ON’/‘OFF’ boot lamp. If switch is re- tained in ‘ON’ position, Boot lamp will turn ‘ON’ automatically on opening the tailgate. DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Tag

Boot lamp will turn ‘ON’ automatically on opening the tailgate. DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Tag Holder windshield for ease of displaying toll, parking tickets, ID’s, passes, labels etc. 53  54  STOWAGE AREAS Storage Compartments 1) Glove box 3) Utility pockets on front doors 5) Oncenter console 2) Pocket on dashboard 4) Utility pockets on rear doors 6) Tailgate (Trunk) Compartment 55  STOWAGE AREAS 1) Glove box To open - Press the knob and open the glove box flap. To close - Fold glove box flap upwards until it engages. NOTE On selected models, cooling facil- ity is also provided. It cools the glove box only when the AC is ‘ON’. 56 2) Pocket on dashboard You can keep suitable items in the space provided. 3) Utility pockets on front doors 4) Utility pockets on rear doors Utility pockets are provided on front and rear doors and it can be used to keep magazines/books, water bottles etc. 5) Center console a) Stowage compartment Stowage compartment provided for keeping cell phones, iPod’s,

Center console a) Stowage compartment Stowage compartment provided for keeping cell phones, iPod’s, chargers etc. b) Cup holder c) Coin storage d) Bottle holder NOTE Use cups, containers, bottles of right size and which have lids. The drinks could otherwise spill.  6) Tailgate (Trunk) Compartment Store the luggage in trunk. WARNING Distribute the items of luggage as evenly as possible. Position heavy loads as far for- wards as possible and as low down in the trunk as possible. The load must not protrude above the luggage cover. Never allow occupants to travel in the luggage compartment. Rear bench seat folding You can increase the trunk capacity by folding the rear seat. For folding: e Slightly lift the seat cushion from front edge, and then lift it from rear and place it vertical. e Pull the backrest release knobs and fold the seat backrest forwards. Move the driver and front passenger seat forward if necessary. STOWAGE AREAS 57  STOWAGE AREAS WARNING 58 You should always engage the

seat forward if necessary. STOWAGE AREAS 57  STOWAGE AREAS WARNING 58 You should always engage the rear seat if you do not need the through loading feature. If the rear bench seat and seat backrest are not engaged they could fold forwards, e.g. when braking suddenly or in the event of an accident. The vehicle occupant would thereby be pushed into the seat belt by the rear bench seat or by the seat backrest. The seat belt can no longer offer the intended level of protection and could even cause injuries. Objects or loads in the trunk can- not be restrained by the seat backrest. There is an increased risk of injury. Before every trip, make sure that the seat backrests and the rear bench seat/rear seat are engaged. Luggage cover Luggage cover is designed only for hid- ing the luggage compartment. WARNING Do not place anything on luggage cover as it could obstruct driver’s rear view. Also in case of an acci- dent or sudden braking, it could cause an injury to occupants. Card holder A

in case of an acci- dent or sudden braking, it could cause an injury to occupants. Card holder A pocket is provided on the back of the driver side sun visor to keep cards, pa- pers etc. NOTE Keep the sun visors in their original position when not in use or else, they may block driver’s vision.  STOWAGE AREAS Hooks Collapsible hook Carrier hooks Coat hook Collapsible hook is provided for hanging Carrier hooks are provided for hanging Coat hook is provided on rear passenger carry bags etc. Load up to 2 kg is permis- carry bags etc. Load up to 3 kgis permis- right side grab handle. sible. sible. WARNING The coat hook cannot restrain heavy objects or items of luggage. Never hang hard, sharp-edged or fragile objects on the coat hook. 59  60  CLIMATE CONTROL The HVAC is operational when engine is running and blower is ‘ON’. The Climate control regulates the temperature in the vehicle interior and filters dust particles. You can manually set the desired temperature Air Distribution- The air

and filters dust particles. You can manually set the desired temperature Air Distribution- The air is distributed through the vents in the passenger compartment as shown below: 61  CLIMATE CONTROL Air vents HVAC Controls A. Air distribution control Air vents are provided on dashboard. Air flow and its direction can be adjusted with the help of knob provided on re- spective vent. This is to select the air distribution pat- tern as described in the table. ——— A. Air Distribution Control B. Blower Speed Control > 2 Directs air through the cen- rt er and side air vents >? Directs air through the cen- C. Temperature Control u rf er, side and foot well vents D. Air Intake Selector Hi Directs air through the foot Sr | welt air vents E. AC ON/OFF Switch Ge Directs air through the de- L re roster & foot well vents (Default fresh air mode) Directs air through the de- GP roster vents (Default fresh air mode) 62  B. Blower Speed control HIGH This is to turn ‘ON’ the blower and select desired

fresh air mode) 62  B. Blower Speed control HIGH This is to turn ‘ON’ the blower and select desired blower speed. C. Temperature control LOW HIGH The temperature control dial allows you to adjust the temperature. To lower the temperature, turn the dial to the left. To increase the temperature, turn the dial to the right. CLIMATE CONTROL D. Air intake selector Press the switch to activate / deactivate recirculation mode. (ok | Press to ‘ON’ or ‘OFF’ Recirculation mode: (Indicator light ‘ON’) Air in the passenger compartment recir- culates. No fresh air enters the compart- ment. Always use when: e Driving on a dusty road or through tunnel. e On signals or slow traffic to avoid traffic pollution. e Maximum cooling is required. 63  CLIMATE CONTROL Fresh Air mode: (Indicator light ‘OFF’) Fresh air is drawn into the vehicle. Always use when: e Discomfort is felt or windows are fogging up. e Using For GHP air flow modes during demist / defrost. e Using normal heating mode. E. AC ON/OFF Press

For GHP air flow modes during demist / defrost. e Using normal heating mode. E. AC ON/OFF Press the switch to activate / deactivate the climate control. The indicator lamp in the button will light up when climate con- trol is activated. 64 NOTE The AC can be switched ‘ON’ only if the blower is ‘ON’ and engine is running. When AC is switched ‘ON’, engine idling RPM increases marginally to adjust the AC compressor load. When desired temperature is achieved AC trips ‘OFF’ automatically.  CLIMATE CONTROL Recommended basic settings of the control elements of air conditioning system for the respective operating modes. These may vary depending on individual requirements and weather conditions. Control Knob Position Button Position A. Air Flow Direction | B. Blower Speed C. Air Temperature D. Air Intake E. AC ON / OFF Functions é qi pb Normal heating Pj 24 or 3% dot Desired temp. Fresh air mode. Switched OFF or oP ? To MAX speed To the right up to the | Briefly switch ON to} Switched OFF a

Switched OFF or oP ? To MAX speed To the right up to the | Briefly switch ON to} Switched OFF a andthen 2™ or | stop Fresh air mode 39 dot then Recirculation Quick heating Normal Cooling 1% to 3° dot Desired temperature | Recirculation Switched ON mode Quick Cooling To MAX speed To the left up to the Recirculation Switched ON and then 2" or stop mode 3°¢ dot Demisting Gy 24 or 3 dot Desired temperature | Fresh air mode Switched ON (Default) (Optional) Defrosting Gy To MAX speed Desired temperature | Fresh air mode Switched ON (Default) (Optional) 65  CLIMATE CONTROL NOTE 66 Condensation may drip from the underside of the vehicle when it is in cooling mode. Traces of wa- ter on the ground are normal and are not a sign that there is a mal- function. Ventilate the vehicle for a brief period during warm weather. This will speed up the cooling process and the desired vehicle interior temperature will be reached quickly. Never cover the air vents or air in- take grilles in the vehicle

will be reached quickly. Never cover the air vents or air in- take grilles in the vehicle interior. If the AC is not used for a long pe- riod, such as during winter, it may not give the best performance when you start using it again. Op- erate the AC at least once a month to maintain optimum per- formance. While starting the vehicle itself after long duration (more than 15 days), following procedure needs to be followed to meet AC performance. - Start the vehicle with AC & Blower in OFF condition in idling for 2~3 minutes. - Then switch ON the AC & Blower and run it for another 2~3 minutes in idling for proper circulation of refriger- ant & oil to lubricate the inter- nal parts of AC system.  Pre Driving Checks Make sure that: Windshield, windows, mirrors, lights, and reflectors are clean and unob- structed. Tools kit, jack & handle, warning tri- angle, owner’s manual, first aid kit and vehicle documents are available and stored at their locations. Never put any mat on top of the

and vehicle documents are available and stored at their locations. Never put any mat on top of the floor carpet near pedal region. All doors, engine bonnet and tail gate are securely closed and latched. All of your passengers are properly restrained. You and your passengers should always wear seat belts. Objects, luggage or loads are se- cured properly against slipping or tip- ping. Rear seat is securely latched. Sufficient fuel for the trip. Daily check: Tyres for abnormal wear, cracks or damage and embedded foreign ma- terial such as nails, stones, etc. Traces of fluid and oil below vehicle. NOTE Water dripping from the air condi- tioning system after use is normal. All lamps, wipers, wiper blades and horn for proper operation. All switches, gauges and tell tales are working properly. Adjust: Seats, head restraints (if equipped) and steering wheel position. All the mirrors properly. STARTING AND DRIVING Weekly check: Engine oil level Coolant level Brake fluid level Windshield washer

AND DRIVING Weekly check: Engine oil level Coolant level Brake fluid level Windshield washer fluid level Battery electrolyte level Fuel level NOTE Check the tyre pressure regularly including spare wheel. 67  STARTING AND DRIVING Driving Tips Fuel consumption, engine, transmission, brake and tyre wear are mainly affected by below factors: Operating conditions of your vehicle Your personal driving style Operating conditions: 68 Avoid frequent start and stop as these increase fuel consumption. Always make sure that the tyre pres- sures are correct. Do not carry any unnecessary weight. Regularly service your vehicle and adhere to the recommended service maintenance schedule. Personal driving style Do not depress the accelerator pedal when starting the engine. Do not warm up the engine when the vehicle is stationary. Always adapt your driving style to suit the prevailing road and weather con- ditions and maintain a safe distance from the vehicle in front. Drive care- fully. Avoid frequent,

ditions and maintain a safe distance from the vehicle in front. Drive care- fully. Avoid frequent, sudden acceleration and braking. Select appropriate gear according to varying speeds and load conditions. NOTE Do not rest your foot on the clutch pedal while driving. Switch ‘OFF’ the engine in stationary traffic or at signals. Keep an eye on the vehicle's fuel con- sumption. Driving safety systems are merely aids designed to assist driving. You are responsible for the distance to the vehicle in front, for vehicle speed and anticipating braking in good time. You could lose control of your vehi- cle if you try to adjust the driver's seat, head restraint, mirror, steer- ing wheel and fasten the seat belt while driving. There is a risk of an accident.  Recommended fuel economy speeds Gear Speed (km/h) Diesel Petrol 1 15 15 2 25 30 3 45 45 4 65 65 5 80 80 Good driving practices Slow down before shifting to a lower gear. This will help avoiding revving of the engine causing damage. Avoid

shifting to a lower gear. This will help avoiding revving of the engine causing damage. Avoid frequent brake application which can cause overheating of brakes. Slower the vehicle speed while trav- elling in cross winds. This gives much better control over the vehicle. Avoid high speed when cornering or turning. Depress the clutch fully while shifting gears. Make sure that vehicle is completely stationary before you attempt to shift in reverse gear. Drive slowly on wet roads. You can get extra braking from the engine by shifting to a lower gear. This can help you to maintain a safe speed and prevent your brakes from overheating specially while going down a hill. Tips for obtaining better fuel effi- ciency Always maintain the specified tyre pressure during fuel top-ups and also before a long trip. Vehicle running with low tyre pressure will consume more fuel than the one running with specified tyre pressure. STARTING AND DRIVING Keep the vehicle clean. Get rid of the not in use

specified tyre pressure. STARTING AND DRIVING Keep the vehicle clean. Get rid of the not in use luggage/stuff lying in the boot etc. Regularly inspect your vehicle for any leakages, worn out wires by rat bites etc. Always follow periodic & regular ser- vice schedule of the vehicle. n places with high dust content (e.g.: Gurgaon, Jaisalmer etc.), do get the air filter cleaned every 5000 kms. Drive smart and smooth in an antici- patory manner. Select driving mode to suit your style. Do not accelerate excessively when you are in lower gears (1* or 2"4). Be gentle on the accelerator when you are in traffic. In lower gear, opening more throttle will shoot the engine RPM keeping the vehicle still at lower speeds which indirectly implies less distance with more fuel. Be in the maximum possible higher gear at a given speed. This reduces 69  STARTING AND DRIVING the engine operating speeds which means the engine is running at lower rpm (Revolutions per Minute) for the same vehicle speed.

which means the engine is running at lower rpm (Revolutions per Minute) for the same vehicle speed. Lesser the num- ber of engine revolution lesser the fuel burned. Avoid harsh braking. Maintain healthy driving habits & while decelerating, do coasting in gear and not in neutral or with clutch pedal depressed. Consider using the car AC when you really require. Consider using lower blower speeds rather than higher for cooling as at higher blower speeds it consumes more electric power which is ultimately drawn from en- gine by burning fuel. Avoid unnecessary extra electrical loading on the car. Stop the engine wisely at traffic sig- nals. Switch ‘OFF’ the engine at the traffic signal only if the stoppage time is high (typically more than 30 sec). e While driving on highways, drive with windows closed. The more you open the windows the higher will be the resistance to the vehicle at higher speeds which will reduce the fuel ef- ficiency. e Do not over speed; follow the speed limits. More

speeds which will reduce the fuel ef- ficiency. e Do not over speed; follow the speed limits. More the speed, higher the external resistance on the vehicle which will finally result into unneces- sary consumption of fuel. Running-in period The more you look after the engine when it is new, the more satisfied you will be with its performance in the future. Avoid rapid acceleration and prolonged high speed running of the engine for the first 1,500 — 1,800 kms. Do not exceed the following road speeds during running in period. Gear Diesel Petrol Speed(km/h) Speed(km/h) 1 20 20 2 30 40 3 50 60 4 70 80 5 90 100 Avoid heavy loads, e.g. driving at ful throttle, during this period. Change gears judiciously. NOTE Avoid excessive rewing up of en- gine rpm. Do not keep engine at idling for long duration.  Seat Adjustments Front seat adjustments Following seat adjustments can be car- ried out manually. 1. Backrest angle 2. Seat height (if equipped) 3. Seat forward / rearward adjustment lever

1. Backrest angle 2. Seat height (if equipped) 3. Seat forward / rearward adjustment lever WARNING Do not adjust the driver's seat while driving. Adjusting the seat while driving could cause the driver to lose control of the vehicle. Seat backrest angle adjustment To change the seat back rest angle, lean forward slightly and pull up the lever (1). Adjust seat backrest until it reaches de- sired comfortable position. Make sure that lever returns to its original position and seat is securely latched. NOTE Adjust the seat backrest until your arms are slightly angled when holding the steering wheel. WARNING Never travel in a moving vehicle with the seat backrest in an exces- sively reclined position as this can STARTING AND DRIVING be dangerous. You could slide un- der the seat belt in a collision. Seat height adjustment (if equipped) To raise the seat, pull and continue pumping the lever (2) in the upward di- rection until the seat is at the desired height. To lower the seat, pump the

(2) in the upward di- rection until the seat is at the desired height. To lower the seat, pump the lever down- ward until the seat is at desired height. Seat forward / rearward adjustment Lift lever (3) and slide the seat forwards or rearwards. Release lever and make sure that seat is securely latched. NOTE Adjust the driver seat position in such a way that the driver will be able to operate the controls pedals comfortably. 71  STARTING AND DRIVING Adjustable head restraint (if equipped) Adjust the head restraint so that it is as close to the head as possible and the center of the head restraint supports the back of the head at eye level. This will reduce the potential for injury to the head and neck in the event of an acci- dent or similar situation. 72 "S'S if Correctly adjusted — incorrectly adjusted Incorrectly adjusted Do not drive the vehicle without the seat head restraints. Head re- straints are intended to help re- duce injuries during an accident. Rear seats Foldable rear

re- straints are intended to help re- duce injuries during an accident. Rear seats Foldable rear seats are provided. Refer ‘Stowage area’ section for more details. Rear View Mirrors Inside Rear View Mirror (IRVM) To adjust the mirror, set the selector knob to the normal position and then move the mirror up, down or sideways manually to obtain the best rear view. When driving at night, set the selector tab to select anti-glare mode to reduce glare from the headlights of vehicles be- hind you. Use antiglare position only when necessary, as it reduces rear view clarity.  Outer Rear View Mirrors You can adjust the outer rear view mir- rors manually with the knob located on the driver’s and front passenger’s door panel. Adjust the outside rear view mir- rors to desired position. NOTE Objects visible in mirror are actu- ally closer than they appear. Al- ways make sure of the actual dis- tance from the road users travel- ing behind by glancing over your shoulder. Motorized outer rear view

from the road users travel- ing behind by glancing over your shoulder. Motorized outer rear view mirrors (if equipped) — The switch to adjust the motorized mir- rors is located on the driver’s door. You can adjust the mirrors when the ignition switch is in the “ACC” or “ON” position. To adjust the mirrors: 1) Move the selector switch to the left (L) or right (R) to select the mirror you wish to adjust. STARTING AND DRIVING 2) Press the outer part of the switch that corresponds to the direction in which you wish to move the mirror. Sun Visors The sun visors can be pulled down to block glare coming through the wind- shield. To block glare from side windows Pull down the sun visor and release it from retainer. Swing the sun visor to the side. 73  STARTING AND DRIVING Vanity mirror Vanity mirror is provided on the back of the front passenger side sun visor. Steering Wheel Adjustment Sy ~ UNLOCK You can adjust the steering wheel posi- tion to suit your convenience. The release lever is

UNLOCK You can adjust the steering wheel posi- tion to suit your convenience. The release lever is located under the steering column. 74 To adjust the steering wheel 1. Adjust the seat to a comfortable po- sition. 2. Push release lever completely down to unlock the steering column. 3. Adjust the steering wheel to the de- sired position. 4. Pull release lever up completely to lock the steering column. 5. Make sure that steering wheel is se- curely locked by checking up and down direction. NOTE When adjusting the steering wheel, make sure that: You can operate control pedals without any obstacles. You can see all the displays in the instrument cluster clearly. Before starting off, make sure the steering wheel position is locked. Never unlock or adjust the steering wheel while the vehicle is in mo- tion. Steering lock cum ignition switch The ignition switch has the following four positions: LOCK - This is the normal parking posi- tion. Key from lock can be removed in this position only.

LOCK - This is the normal parking posi- tion. Key from lock can be removed in this position only.  “LOCK” position prevents normal use of the steering wheel after the key is re- moved. To release the steering lock, insert the key and turn it clockwise to one of the other positions. ACC - Accessories such as the infotain- ment system can be operated, but the engine remains ‘OFF’. Steering gets un- locked. ON - This is the normal operating posi- tion. All electrical systems are ‘ON’. START - Turn the key further clockwise to the START position, (spring loaded) to start the engine. As soon as the engine starts, release the ignition key, which re- turns to ON position. While cranking, all accessories will be momentarily ‘OFF’. Illuminated Key Ring (if equipped) When the vehicle is unlocked, the illumi- nated key ring glows up. This helps to lo- cate ignition switch in the dark. Starting the Engine Make sure that parking brake is en- gaged and vehicle is in neutral gear. Depress the clutch

Engine Make sure that parking brake is en- gaged and vehicle is in neutral gear. Depress the clutch pedal fully and crank the engine. Do not press the accelerator pedal when starting the engine. NOTE The Starter protection system fit- ted in this vehicle does not allow you to crank the engine until you fully depress the clutch pedal. Release the key as soon as the engine starts. Repeat if engine does not start. NOTE The Starter protection system switches off the starter when it is cranked for more than 10 secs. In such a case, get the key back to ‘OFF’ position & wait for 30 secs. STARTING AND DRIVING The engine emits poisonous ex- haust gases such as carbon mon- oxide. Inhaling these exhaust gases leads to poisoning. There is a risk of fatal injury. Therefore never leave the engine running in enclosed spaces without sufficient ventilation. Starting off To start off, depress the clutch pedal fully and shift into 1st gear. After releasing the parking brake, gradu- ally release the

pedal fully and shift into 1st gear. After releasing the parking brake, gradu- ally release the clutch and slowly press the accelerator. NOTE When shifting or starting off, do not race the engine. Racing the engine can shorten engine life and affect smooth shifting. 75  STARTING AND DRIVING Gear Shifting and Driving The gearshift pattern is as shown on the gear lever knob. Gear shifting should al- ways be done with clutch pedal pressed. NOTE Depress the clutch fully when gear shifting. The reverse gear should be engaged only when the vehicle is stationary. Wait for 5 seconds af- ter declutching to ensure smooth engagement of the reverse gear. Do not depress clutch pedal while 76 driving the vehicle stationary on a slope. Current gear indication The Driver Information display (DIS) in the Instrument Cluster indicates the cur- rent gear position engaged. Gear recommendation Up or down arrow will be displayed in DIS, recommending whenever gear should be shifted to up or down. NOTE e Gear

will be displayed in DIS, recommending whenever gear should be shifted to up or down. NOTE e Gear recommendation is dis- played when the clutch pedal is in fully released position. e If “F” is displayed in DIS of in- strument cluster it means ‘Fault’ condition. Contact a TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre. Drive modes ‘ECO ‘and ‘CITY’ drive modes are pro- vided. These modes can be used to ad- just engine characteristics and vehicle performance in line with desired require- ment. Drive mode selection switch is provided on dashboard fascia for activation. NOTE Default mode is ‘CITY’ and tell-tale will be displayed on instrument cluster. Select the desired mode as per driving feasibility.  Drive Performance Mode CITY Increased engine Torque (default and Power output for mode) BALANCED performance ECO Optimum engine Torque and Power output for FUEL EFFICIENT perfor- mance Do not switch off the ignition while driving. If you switch off the ignition while driving, safety-relevant

off the ignition while driving. If you switch off the ignition while driving, safety-relevant functions are only available with limitations, or not at all. This could affect the power steering and the brake boosting effect. You will require considerably more effort to steer and brake. There is a risk of an ac- cident. Braking Your vehicle has power assisted brakes. The distance needed to bring the vehicle to a halt increases with the speed of the vehicle. Start applying brake anticipating the distance and slow down gradually. Never use the brake pedal as a footrest. If you rest your foot on the brake pedal while driving, the braking system can overheat. This in- creases the stopping distance and can even cause the braking system to fail. There is a risk of an acci- dent. Never depress the brake pedal and the accelerator pedal at the same time. lf you have driven for a long time in heavy rain without braking, there may be a delayed reaction from the brakes when braking for the first

rain without braking, there may be a delayed reaction from the brakes when braking for the first time. This may also STARTING AND DRIVING occur after washed. the vehicle has been Brake performance may become poor and unpredictable if brakes are wet. After driving through water or washing the underside of the vehicle, test the brakes while driving at a slow speed to see if they have maintained their normal effectiveness. If the brakes are less ef- fective than normal, dry them by repeat- edly applying the brakes while driving slowly until the brakes have regained their normal effectiveness. Braking on downhill gradients On long and steep gradients, you must reduce the load on the brakes by shifting early to a lower gear. This allows you to take advantage of the engine braking ef- fect and helps avoid overheating and ex- cessive wear of the brakes. 77  STARTING AND DRIVING Do not shift to lower gear on a slip- pery road surface in an attempt to increase the engine's braking ef- fect,

to lower gear on a slip- pery road surface in an attempt to increase the engine's braking ef- fect, the drive wheels could lose their grip. There is an increased danger of skidding and accidents. Switch-off the engine Turn the key to ‘ACC’ position to switch off the engine. Before switching off the engine, run the engine in idle condition for at least 30 seconds and then switch off. This will allow the engine oil to lubri- cate the turbocharger, till its speed is fully reduced and also allow the unit to cool down. 78 A quick burst on the accelerator before turning off the engine serves absolutely no practical pur- pose, it wastes fuel and is damag- ing especially to turbocharged en- gine. Do not switch the engine off when it is running at high speed. This will lead to premature turbocharger bearing wear.  Parking Brake Mechanical parking brake acting only on the rear wheels is provided on the vehi- cle. To apply the parking brake, pull the lever up fully. The parking brakes tell- tale

the vehi- cle. To apply the parking brake, pull the lever up fully. The parking brakes tell- tale illuminates on the instrument clus- ter. To release it, pull the lever up slightly, press the release button and push the lever down. Parking brakes tell- tale on the instrument cluster will turn ‘OFF’ when the lever is fully released. STARTING AND DRIVING NOTE NOTE Apply the parking brake properly before leaving the vehicle and re- lease it before moving. Vehicle parking Park the vehicle in a safe place. Switch on the indicator signal before turning to park. Apply the parking brake. Ensure that all window glasses are closed and all lamps are turned ‘OFF’. At night, put on the parking lights if required. Remove the key from the ignition switch and lock the vehicle. Block the wheel if parked on a slope. NOTE When parking on a downhill gradi- ent, place the gear lever in ‘Reverse’ position. While parking on uphill gradient, place the gear lever in the ‘1st’ position. Never leave children

While parking on uphill gradient, place the gear lever in the ‘1st’ position. Never leave children unsupervised in the parked vehicle. They could also operate the vehicle's equip- ment. There is a risk of an accident and injury. Do not use parking brake for brak- ing unless unavoidable circum- stances like when service brake is not working properly. The braking distance is considerably longer and the wheels could lock. There is an increased danger of skidding and accidents.  STARTING AND DRIVING Reverse Park Assist (if equipped) Reverse Park Assist system is an elec- tronic parking aid that will assist you to park your vehicle safely when in reverse gear mode. It provides audio and visual information through the vehicles info- tainment system. @3 FM1: 94.3 MHz There are 4 ultrasonic sensors placed on the rear bumper of the vehicle. Once the system is activated, the sensors will de- tect the proximity of an obstacle from the bumper, and this information would be displayed on the

tect the proximity of an obstacle from the bumper, and this information would be displayed on the vehicles infotainment system. 80 0 to 25 cm obstacle detection per- formance is not guaranteed due to ultrasonic sensor technology limi- tation. Operation The reverse park assist will automati- cally start functioning once you engage reverse gear. Display will be seen on in- fotainment screen. NOTE Turning the ignition ‘OFF’ ‘while the Park assist feature in running would disable the feature. Park assist indications In case of Reverse park assist system malfunctions, the following screen may appear on the infotainment system. Reason for this fault may be a. Park assists control failure b. Sensor Malfunction Partner components such as Info- tainment music system, Instrument Cluster or Body Control Module fail- ure. Park Assist, Unknown Fault! EE A Critical Fault Park Assist System not available getitrectified by TATA dealer  Reverse park assist limitations Reverse Park Assist system is not

getitrectified by TATA dealer  Reverse park assist limitations Reverse Park Assist system is not a colli- sion avoiding system. It is solely the driver’s responsibility to park the vehicle safely. Reverse Park Assist feature works on ul- tra sound echo technology, due to which performance is not guaranteed in follow- ing scenarios: e If the object has a sharp edge sur- face, where surface may divert ech- oes from sensor reception. e If object is mesh fence made up of thin wires, where echoes can’t be given by the surface. e Fast moving objects passes in the sensor field of detection, where ech- oes are not processed by the system. e If object is made/covered by foam or sponge or snow where ultrasonic sound signals are absorbed. e Objects close to the rear bumper can go undetected by the Reverse Park Assist field of detection. Driver should use extreme caution while parking the vehicle. Due to any reason, if the sensor gets misaligned or loses its in- tended fitment position, contact

Due to any reason, if the sensor gets misaligned or loses its in- tended fitment position, contact your dealer for refitment. NOTE Turning the ignition ‘OFF’ ‘while the Park assist feature in running would disable the feature. Reverse park assist system preven- tive maintenance 1. Regularly clean the sensors and keep them free from dust, ice, mud, water, chewing gum etc. for proper working of the system. Use a smooth cloth for cleaning. STARTING AND DRIVING 2. Do not use water at high pressure for cleaning the sensor. 3. Do not cover the sensor surface with any additional fitment. This will interrupt park assist performance. 81  82  Emergency Equipment You should be familiar with the location of the emergency equipment provided in the vehicle and how to use it. Check this equipment periodically and ensure that they are in proper working condition and stowed at their locations. First aid kit The first aid kit is kept inside the glove box compartment. The kit contains items that can be

kit The first aid kit is kept inside the glove box compartment. The kit contains items that can be used in case of minor injuries only. NOTE Check contents of the first aid kit periodically and replenish con- sumed or expired items. EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Tool kit and tow hook Tool kit & tow hook are provided in bag. This bag is stowed inside LH side pocket of luggage compartment. NOTE The tool kit should be properly stored when not in use. A scissors jack is kept inside luggage compartment below the spare wheel. Jack handle is kept in the tool kit bag. NOTE The jack should be used only to change wheels. It is important to read the jacking instructions in this section before attempting to use the jack. 83  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Advance warning triangle An advance warning triangle is kept in the luggage compartment. Use advance warning triangle to warn the approaching traffic in case of vehicle break-down or during emergency, where your vehicle could become a

traffic in case of vehicle break-down or during emergency, where your vehicle could become a potential traffic hazard. Press hazard warning switch, all turn sig- nal lamps will start blinking Keep the warning triangle at an approxi- mate distance of 50-150 m behind your vehicle in the same lane of traffic. The reflecting side of the triangle should face the oncoming traffic and it should be free from any obstacles. Remove the advance warning triangle carefully from the bag and assemble. Re- fer instructions given on the bag. 84 NOTE After using the warning triangle tie it firmly and keep it inside the bag to avoid rattling noise. Hazard Warning Switch Press the hazard warning switch to acti- vate the hazard warning. All the turn sig- nal lamps will flash simultaneously. To turn OFF, press the switch again. Use the hazard warning to warn the traf- fic during emergency parking or when your vehicle could otherwise become a traffic hazard. The hazard warning lamps can operate even if the

vehicle could otherwise become a traffic hazard. The hazard warning lamps can operate even if the ignition is switched off.  In Case of Flat Tyre Reduce vehicle speed gradually, without making any sudden steering or braking maneuvers. Pay attention to the traffic conditions as you do so. Switch on the hazard warning lamps. Stop the vehicle on solid, non-slip- pery and level ground, as far away as possible from traffic. If possible, bring the front wheels into the straight-ahead position. Secure the vehicle against rolling away. Set the parking brake firmly and shift into “R” (Reverse) gear. Switch off the engine. Keep advance warning triangle at a suitable distance behind the vehicle as an indication of breakdown. Close all the doors. EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE WARNING Spare Wheel If you drive with a flat tyre, there is a risk of the following hazards: A flat tyre affects the ability to steer or brake the vehicle. You could lose control of the vehi- cle. Continued driving with

to steer or brake the vehicle. You could lose control of the vehi- cle. Continued driving with a flat tyre will permanently damage the tyre and cause excessive heat buildup and possibly a_ fire. There is a risk of an accident. 1. Spare Wheel 2. Retaining bolt Spare wheel is located in the luggage compartment. To access the spare wheel open the tail gate, lift the carpet up and fold it. To remove the spare wheel, unscrew and remove the retaining bolt. Take out the spare wheel. 85  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Wheel covers (if equipped) Insert a piece of cloth between the spokes of the wheel cover and pull it out- wards. Take out detached wheel cover from the wheel rim. When installing the cover, make sure that it is positioned so that it does not cover the air filling valve. Apply equal pressure at the circumference of the wheel cover to fix it in the wheel rim. 86 NOTE Do not use any sharp tools (such as screw driver etc.) to remove the wheel cover. Changing flat tyre Loosen the

sharp tools (such as screw driver etc.) to remove the wheel cover. Changing flat tyre Loosen the nuts (as indicated) on the wheel in diagonal sequence. Do not un- screw the nuts completely before jacking the vehicle. Wheel nut removal Assemble the Jack handle and wheel spanner (as shown in jacking fig.) Position the jack vertically and raise it by turning the jack handle clockwise until the jack sits completely on jacking point and the base of the jack lies evenly on the ground. The jacking points are indicated on the vehicle (Refer jacking point location). Jacking point location  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE | WARNING Remove wheel mounting nuts with the Place the flat tyre at spare wheel loca- If you do not position the jack cor- help of wheel spanner and take out flat tion. rectly at the appropriate jacking tyre. NOTE point of the vehicle, the jack could tip over with the vehicle raised. NOTE Check and correct the tyre pres- There is a risk of injury. Do not place wheel nuts

raised. NOTE Check and correct the tyre pres- There is a risk of injury. Do not place wheel nuts in sand or sure and wheel nuts tightness of on a dirty surface. Do not apply oil the changed wheel at nearest au- Continue to raise the jack slowly and or grease on it. thorised service station. smoothly until the tyre clears the ground. ; . Get the flat tyre repaired at the ear- Do not raise the vehicle more than nec- Ol! the spare wheel into position and liest. essary. align the holes in the wheel studs. nstall wheel nuts with their cone shaped end facing the wheel. Tighten each nut y hand until the wheel is securely seated on the hub. Lower the jack completely then tighten the wheel nuts one by one using wheel spanner. Press fit the wheel cover back (if fitted). Restore all the tools and jack at their respective location. Jacking 87  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE NOTE The jack is designed only to raise and hold the vehicle for a short time while a wheel is being changed. It is not

only to raise and hold the vehicle for a short time while a wheel is being changed. It is not suited for per- forming maintenance work under the vehicle. Use the jack on level, hard ground. Avoid changing the wheel on uphill and downhill slopes. Apply wheel chokes if vehicle is parked on slope. Before raising the vehicle, secure it from rolling away by applying the parking brake. Do not use wooden blocks or simi- lar objects as a jack underlay. Never place your hands and feet or lie under the raised vehicle when it is supported by the jack. Never run the engine when the ve- hicle is supported by the jack and never allow passengers to remain in the vehicle. Never open or close a door or the trunk lid when the vehicle is raised. 88 Jump Lead Starting Use only a battery of same rating & ca- pacity to jump start your vehicle. Position the booster battery close to your vehicle so that the jump leads will reach both batteries. When using a battery of another vehicle, do not let the vehicles

leads will reach both batteries. When using a battery of another vehicle, do not let the vehicles touch. Apply the parking brake firmly and keep the gearshift lever in neutral. Turn off all vehicle accessories, except those necessary for safety like hazard warning lamps. Make jump lead connections as follows: Connect tha cable in nutmerical order & disconnect in reverse order, Unpainted Metal (Engine) part of vehicle with discharges battery Connect one end of the first jump lead to the positive (+) terminal of the discharged battery. Connect the other end to the positive (+) terminal of the booster battery. Connect one end of the second jump lead to the negative (-) terminal of the booster battery. Make the final connection (other end of the negative terminal) to an un- painted, heavy metal part (i.e. engine mounting stud/nut) of the vehicle of discharged battery.  Start the engine of the vehicle with the discharged battery. Before disconnecting the jumper ca- bles, let the engine run

vehicle with the discharged battery. Before disconnecting the jumper ca- bles, let the engine run for several minutes. If the booster battery you are using is fitted to another vehicle, start the en- gine of the vehicle with the booster battery. Run the engine at moderate speed. Remove the jump leads in the exact reverse order in which you connected them. NOTE Do not disconnect the discharged battery from the vehicle. Never connect the jump lead di- rectly to the negative (-) terminal of the discharged battery. This may lead to an explosion. EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Do not allow battery electrolyte to come in contact with eyes, skin, fabrics or painted surfaces. The fluid contains acid which can cause injury and severe damage. Wear protective apparel. Do not in- hale any battery gases. Keep chil- dren away from batteries. In case if battery acid comes in contact with the skin, wash it off immediately with water and seek medical atten- tion. During charging and jump-starting,

wash it off immediately with water and seek medical atten- tion. During charging and jump-starting, explosive gases can escape from the battery. There is a risk of an ex- plosion. Particularly avoid fire, open flames, creating sparks and smoking. Ensure there is sufficient ventilation while charging and jump-starting. Do not lean over the battery. Make sure that the positive termi- nal of a connected battery does not come into contact with vehicle parts. Never place metal objects or tools on a battery. It is important that you observe the described order of the battery ter- minals when connecting and dis- connecting a battery. If you are in doubt, seek assistance from quali- fied specialist workshop. Never connect or disconnect the battery terminals while the engine is running. 89  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Towing When towing a break down vehicle, cer- tain precautions and procedures must be taken to prevent damage to the vehi- cle and/or components. Failure to use standard

must be taken to prevent damage to the vehi- cle and/or components. Failure to use standard towing precautionary measures when lifting or towing a break down vehicle could result in an unsafe operating condition. To ensure proper towing and to prevent accidental damage to your vehicle, take help of a TATA MOTORS authorized dealer or a commercial tow-truck ser- vice. NOTE Make sure that the parking brake is released; vehicle in neutral gear position and steering wheel is un- locked. The power steering func- tions only when engine is running. Hence, during towing the steering efforts will be more. 90 Never get under your vehicle af- ter it has been lifted by a tow truck. For towing a vehicle, the best way is to use a wrecker. Alternatively use a rigid tow bar. Switch 'ON' the hazard warning indicators of both the vehicles to warn other road users. Limit the speed to 20-30 kmph. In case of brake failure, use the parking brake to control the vehicle. Fasten the tow rope or tow bar at the

brake failure, use the parking brake to control the vehicle. Fasten the tow rope or tow bar at the towing eyes. Otherwise, the vehicle could be damaged. When towing, pull away slowly and smoothly. If the tractive power is too high, the vehicles could be damaged. Open the tailgate and remove tow hook from the tool kit. Open the tow hook cover provided on the front bumper by pressing it at the bottom part and simultaneously pull- ing it at the top (as shown in fig). Screw in and tighten the tow hook in clockwise direction. After towing, remove the towing hook and press fit the cover properly. Place the towing hook in the vehicle tool kit.  Recommended towing In case of break down we recommend that your vehicle be towed with the driv- ing wheels off the ground or place the ve- hicle on a flatbed truck as shown. e Never tow your vehicle with the front wheels on the ground or four wheels on the ground (for- ward or backward), as this may cause serious damage to the transmission. e When

on the ground (for- ward or backward), as this may cause serious damage to the transmission. e When towing with the rear wheels on the ground or on tow- ing dollies, place the ignition switch in the ‘ACC’ or ‘ON’ posi- tion, and secure the steering wheel in the straight-ahead posi- tion with a rope or similar device. EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Fuses Your vehicle has fuse boxes at three lo- cations. The vehicles electrical circuits have fuses to protect the wiring from short cir- cuits or sustained overload. 1. Battery Mounted Fuse Box. 2. Engine Compartment Fuse Box. 3. Cabin Compartment Fuse Box. 91  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Checking and replacing fuses If any electrical unit in your vehicle is not functioning, check the fuses first. Please follow the steps below that will guide you to check and replace them. 92 Apply parking brake Switch off all electrical consumers. Turn the ignition key to the 'LOCK' po- sition. In the fuse box, identify the defective fuse from

Turn the ignition key to the 'LOCK' po- sition. In the fuse box, identify the defective fuse from its melted wire. BLOWN Remove the blown fuse by “fuse puller”. The fuse puller and spare fuses are provided in the engine compartment fuse box. Engine compartment fuse box Blown fuses must be replaced with fuses of same rating, which you can recognize by color and value. NOTE Always ensure that the spare fuses are replenished. Ensure that all other fuses are pressed firmly in position. If a newly inserted fuse also blows, have the cause traced and rectified at nearest TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre immediately. WARNING If you manipulate or bridge a faulty fuse or if you replace it with a fuse with higher amperage, the electric cables could be overloaded. This could result in a fire. There is a risk of an accident and injury. Always replace faulty fuses with the specified new fuses having the correct amperage.  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Battery mounted fuse box Function

having the correct amperage.  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Battery mounted fuse box Function NOTE The fuse box layout is for reference PF1 STARTER CAL 1 purpose only. Please refer the MOTOR sticker provided inside the fuse box cover. If Fuse box cover is removed for any reason, it should be refitted properly at its original position. Engine compartment fuse box e Batty tve Cale @ From Starter Metar e Battery ova Cable ry iy From Front FusaBor 93  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Fuses - Engine Compartment 15 - - 40 INJECTORS 20A Fuse Function Fuse 16 HORN HIGH / 15A (PETROL) rin, Rating LOW TONE a - - 1 INTERIOR FIB2 | GOA 17 FRONT FOG 10A 42 HEAD LAMP 15A IGNITION 18 | EMS BATTERY 10A LOW ABS 40A 19 7 7 43 EMS IGN 10A ctow PLUG 60A 20 FUEL PUMP 20A 44 : : ( ) 21 BRAKE LAMP 10A 45 : - 4 COOLING FAN 40A 46 HEAD LAMP 415A HIGH SPEED 22 RELAY COIL 5A HIGH 5 EPAS 60A 23 - - 6 : : 24 | FRONT WIPER 20A 7 | INTERIORFIB1 | 60A MOTOR BATTERY 25 ABS 5A 8 UNDER BON- 60A 26 WASHER 10A NET

| FRONT WIPER 20A 7 | INTERIORFIB1 | 60A MOTOR BATTERY 25 ABS 5A 8 UNDER BON- 60A 26 WASHER 10A NET F/R BOX MOTOR 9 - : 27 : : 10 | IGNITIONLOAD | 60A 28 REVERSE & 10A Fr - : BRAKE LAMP 12 COMPRESSOR 10A 29 REAR WIPER 10A 13 STARTER 20A 38 EMS ECU 20A SOLENOID 39 EMS ECU 15A 14 ABS ECU 25A 94  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Cabin compartment fuse box 2. To remove the cover, gently pull the Cover removal procedure cover from bottom side such that the lugs get disengaged. Fuse box is located inside the cover be- low steering column. To access the fuse Re-fitment procedure box, remove cover as per procedure given below. Align and engage the top and bottom mounting lugs with respective slots on 1 1. Fuse box cover is mounted on dash gash board and press the cover firmly. | OO board with the help of lugs at the top SONG ca and bottom of the cover from inside. Din DCS Ie Cabin compartment fuse box 95  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Fuses - Cabin Compartment 15 POWER 15A SOCKET 16

fuse box 95  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Fuses - Cabin Compartment 15 POWER 15A SOCKET 16 RELAY COILS 5A 17 - - 18 HVAC 10A 19 | HRW/FLASHER | 25A/10A 20 IGN SUPPLY 10A 21 POWER 15A SOCKET 22 | TRANSIT/INFO- 15A TAINMENT Fuse Function | Fuse No. Rating 1 AIR BAG 10A 2 ACCESSORY 15A 3 . - 4 BCM 15A 5 INTERIOR LAMP 5A 6 MIRROR AD- 5A JUST MOTOR 7 BCM/POSITION 15A/5A RH 8 CLUSTER / OBD 10A 9 BCM/POSITION 15A/5A LH 10 KEY IN AFTER 5A MARKET 11 IMMOBILIZER / 5A EPAS 12 - - 13 BLOWER MO- 30A TOR 14 CDL / ACCES- 15A SORY 96  Bulb Specification EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Sr. No. Description Rating Type Qty. 1 HIGH BEAM + LOW BEAM 12V, 55W H4 2 2 TURN SIGNAL FRONT 12V, 21W PY21W 2 3 FOG LAMP FRONT 12V, 19W H16 2 4 STOP + POSITION LAMP REAR 12V, 21/5W P21/5W 2 5 POSITION LAMP FRONT 2V, SW Ww5w 2 6 TURN SIGNAL REAR 12V, 21W PY21W 2 7 REVERSE LAMP 12V, 16W Ww16w 2 8 REAR REGISTRATION PLATE LAMP 2V, SW Ww5w 2 9 SIDE REPEATER LAMP 2V, SW WYSW 2 10 ROOF LAMP. LED LED MODULE 1 11 HIGH

PLATE LAMP 2V, SW Ww5w 2 9 SIDE REPEATER LAMP 2V, SW WYSW 2 10 ROOF LAMP. LED LED MODULE 1 11 HIGH MOUNTED STOP LAMP 2V, SW Ww5w 5 12 LOAD AREA LAMP 2V, SW Ww5w 1 97  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Bulb Replacement Replacing - High / Low beam bulb 3. To free the headlamp bulb from the 1. Remove the rubber press fit cover socket, press and swing the retaining by simply pulling it off. spring and pull it straight back. Open the bonnet to access the head- lamps. 2. Press the pin and pull the connector from the bulb. 4. Pull out the bulb from the socket. WARNING The engine should not be running when changing bulbs. If the engine has been running just prior to replacing bulbs in the headlight housing, please keep in mind that components in the en- gine compartment will be hot. 98  5. Insert the new bulb (without touch- ing the glass) into the socket. 6. Move the retaining spring up and push it slightly until it locks properly. 7. Refit the connector into the bulb and press the rubber

push it slightly until it locks properly. 7. Refit the connector into the bulb and press the rubber cover on headlamp housing to fit it properly. EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Replacing the position bulb Unlock the position bulb by turning the socket in counter clockwise direction. Replace with the new bulb (refer bulb specification table) and refit it by press- ing and turning in clockwise direction firmly into the socket. 99  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Replacing the turn indicator Unlock the turn indicator bulb by turning the socket in counterclockwise direction. Replace with the new bulb (refer bulb specification table) and refit it by press- ing and turning it in clockwise direction firmly into the socket. 100  24 X 7 Road Assistance Dear Customer, It is our responsibility and our endeavour to ensure that you have our complete service backup if ever, wherever and whenever you need the same. When you have a road network that spans wide area, the probability of a

whenever you need the same. When you have a road network that spans wide area, the probability of a breakdown happening within hailing distance of a TATA MOTORS Authorized Workshop is very low. It is precisely for this reason, we have tied up with TVS AA, who will provide breakdown assistance including towing to the nearest TATA MOTORS Authorized Workshop through their Authorized Ser- vice Providers (ASP). The 24X7 On Road Assistance Program shall be automatically available to your vehicle for the duration of Warranty pe- riod. The program shall also be availa- ble, if you avail the same post warranty. EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Response Time ** for the On Road Assistance Program Within City 60 minutes Limits On State or Na- | 90 minutes tional High- ways Ghat Roads 120 minutes +/- and other places **(The response time will depend on the location, terrain, traffic density and the ime of the day.) Standard procedure when calling for On Road Assistance in case of a breakdown: e

ime of the day.) Standard procedure when calling for On Road Assistance in case of a breakdown: e Dial the toll free help line number - 1 800 209 7979 e Identify your vehicle with the Vehicle chassis number that is available in the Owner’s Manual. Explain your exact location with land- marks and tell us about the problem you face with the vehicle. Park your vehicle on the edge of the road, open the bonnet and put on the hazard warning signal. Place the advance warning triangle supplied with the vehicle approx. 3m from the vehicle in the direction of oncoming traffic. 1800 209 7979 101  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Coverage under 24 X 7 On Road Assistance Program |. The 24x7 On Road Assistance Pro- gram Service covers the following ser- vices on your vehicle during warranty pe- riod. e Wheel change through spare wheel. e Arrangement of fuel. (Fuel cost will be chargeable at actual cost) e Re-opening the vehicle in cases of key lock out. e Rectification of electrical problems

cost) e Re-opening the vehicle in cases of key lock out. e Rectification of electrical problems related to battery, fuses etc. e Onspot repairs for complaints repair- able at site. “ e Vehicle to vehicle towing or winching & towing for non-accident cases up to the nearest TATA MOTORS author- ized workshop. Towing charges at ac- tual cost beyond the same to be paid to the ASP in cash. (Any ferry or toll charges levied in relation to the vehi- cle being towed to be paid by the cus- tomers in actuals in cash). 102 For accident cases, towing charges to be borne by the customer. Il. The 24x7 On Road Assistance Pro- gram coverage on availing the 24X7 pol- icy, post warranty is upto maximum of 6 instance of assistance in one year for both the plans- Basic and Premium. In the premium plan, this includes 2 in- stances of towing upto the nearest TATA MOTORS authorised workshop. Exclusions 24 X 7 On Road Assistance Program does not apply to e Cost of parts consumables and la- bour for such

X 7 On Road Assistance Program does not apply to e Cost of parts consumables and la- bour for such repairs not covered un- der warranty*. These charges are to be settled with ASP in cash. e Toll or ferry charges paid by ASP in reaching to the breakdown site to be settled with ASP in actuals in cash. e Cases involving accident, fire, theft, vandalism, riots, lightening, earth- quake, windstorm, hail, tsunami, un- usual weather conditions, other acts of God, flood, etc. Vehicles that are unattended, un-reg- istered, impounded or abandoned. Breakdown/defects caused by mis- use, abuse, negligence, alterations or modifications made to the vehicle. Lack of maintenance as per the maintenance schedule as detailed in the owner’s manual. Cases involving racing, rallies, vehi- cle testing or practice for such events.  Disclaimer The Service is not available in Lak- shwadeep. **The reach time is indicative & the actual reach time will be conveyed by the call centre at the time of break- down

indicative & the actual reach time will be conveyed by the call centre at the time of break- down call. The reach time can vary depending on the traffic density & time of the day. The reach time indicated does not account for delays due to but not lim- ited to acts of God, laws, rules & reg- ulations for time being in force, or- ders of statutory or Govt. authorities, industrial disputes, inclement weather, heavy down pour, floods, storms, natural calamities, road blocks due to accidents, general strife and law & order conditions viz. fire, arson, riots, strikes, terrorist at- tacks, war etc. EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE * On spot repairs at breakdown site shall depend on nature of com- plaints & will be as per the discretion of the ASP. *The decision for free of charge re- pairs will be as per the warranty pol- icy & procedures of TATA MOTORS LTD. and as per the interpretation of the same by ASP. You will be duly in- formed by the ASP & call centre for the change applicable if

the same by ASP. You will be duly in- formed by the ASP & call centre for the change applicable if any. All charges wherever applicable need to be settled directly with the ASP. Exclusion of Liabilities It is understood that TATA MOTORS shall be under no liability whatsoever in respect of any loss or damage aris- ing directly or indirectly out of any de- lay in or non-delivery of, defect/defi- ciency in service/parts provided by ASP. In case vehicle cannot be repaired on-site, customers are advised to use the towing facility for taking their vehicle to the nearest TATA MOTORS authorized workshop only. In no con- dition will the vehicle be towed to any unauthorized workshop. TATA MO- TORS will not be responsible for any repairs carried out in such unauthor- ized workshop. Customer are advised to take ac- nowledgment from the ASP for the ist of accessories/extra fittings and other belongings in the vehicle as well as the current condition related to dents/scratches breakages of

belongings in the vehicle as well as the current condition related to dents/scratches breakages of parts/fitments of the vehicle at the time of ASP taking possession of the vehicle & to verify these items when delivery is taken back by them, Claim or loss of or damage to items, if any should be taken up with ASP directly. TATA MOTORS shall not be responsi- le for any such claims, dam- ages/loss or any deficiency of ser- vice of the ASP. Vehicles will be handled, repaired & towed as per the customer’s risk & TATA MOTORS shall not be liable for 103  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE any damages / claims as a result of the same. e Services entitled to the customers can be refused or cancelled on ac- count of abusive behaviour, fraudu- lent representation, malicious intent and refusal to pay the charges for any charges related services and spare parts during service or on pre- vious occasion on part of the cus- tomer. e On site repairs may be temporary in nature. The completion of

occasion on part of the cus- tomer. e On site repairs may be temporary in nature. The completion of repairs does not certify the road worthiness of the vehicle. The customer is ad- vised to ensure temporary repairs carried out onsite is followed by per- manent repairs at a TATA MOTORS Authorized Workshop at the earliest. e Terms and conditions and service coverage, exclusions etc. are subject to change without notice. 104  Maintenance and Service Periodic maintenance is essential for en- suring long trouble free performance. Have your vehicle serviced regularly from TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre. There is a large network of TATA MO- TORS Authorized Service Centre’s to help you with their professional servicing expertise. Scheduled maintenance infor- mation is provided which makes tracking routine service easy. The following checks can be carried out between the recommended scheduled maintenance services. Take help of our authorized service centre for assistance. e Engine oil

maintenance services. Take help of our authorized service centre for assistance. e Engine oil level e Engine coolant level e Brake fluid level e Washer fluid level checking & top- ping up e Battery electrolyte level e Tyre inflation pressure spare wheel NOTE Refer “Opening and Closing” sec- tion for engine bonnet opening. including MAINTENANCE e Becareful not to touch a hot en- gine, exhaust manifold and pipes, muffler, radiator and wa- ter hoses. e Do not work on a vehicle with the engine running in an en- closed space, unless you are sure you have enough ventila- tion. e Keep all open flames and other burning material (such as ciga- rettes) away from the battery and all fuel related parts. If you need to do any work insid the engine compartment, e Switch off the ignition e Never reach into the area where there is a risk of danger from mov- ing components, such as the fan rotation area. e Keep clothing away from moving parts. fo) 105  MAINTENANCE Engine Compartment - Diesel 1. Brake

e Keep clothing away from moving parts. fo) 105  MAINTENANCE Engine Compartment - Diesel 1. Brake fluid reservoir 4. Windshield washer container 7. Battery 2. Dip Stick - Engine Oil 5. Air Filter 8. Auxiliary tank 3. Engine oil filling cap 6. Fuse & relay box 106  MAINTENANCE Engine Compartment — Petrol 1. Dip Stick - Engine Oil 4. Windshield washer container 7. Battery 2. Brake fluid reservoir 5. Air Filter 8. Auxiliary tank 3. Engine oil filling cap 6. Fuse & relay box 107  MAINTENANCE Engine Oil Level Warm up the engine to normal operating temperature. Turn it ‘OFF’ and wait for 5 minutes for the oil to return to the oil pan. Be sure the vehicle is on a level surface. Take out the dipstick, wipe it clean, and reinsert if fully. Pull it out again and ex- amine the oil level. It should be between ‘MIN’ and ‘MAX’ level. If not, top up with recommended engine oil. NOTE The oil consumption depends upon the driving style and the con- ditions under which the vehicle is used. 108 L A -MIN

depends upon the driving style and the con- ditions under which the vehicle is used. 108 L A -MIN B- MAX Diesel A -MIN B- MAX Petrol NOTE Do not remove the filler cap when the engine is running. Do not add oil above than the MAX. mark. Oil level above the MAX. mark may cause engine damage. For location of Engine oil filling cap and dip stick, please refer respective Engine Compartment pages.  Brake Fluid Level MAINTENANCE of auxiliary tank until the level ap- The level of the brake fluid should be be- tween the ‘MIN’ and ‘MAX’ marks on the side of the brake fluid container. If the level falls below the ‘MIN’ mark, add rec- ommended brake fluid. NOTE Do not allow brake fluid to make contact with the skin or eyes. Do not allow brake fluid to splash or spill on the paint surface as it will damage the paint. In case of spillage, wipe it off immediately. For location of Brake Fluid Container and filling cap, please refer respective Engine Compartment pages. Engine Coolant Level Check

and filling cap, please refer respective Engine Compartment pages. Engine Coolant Level Check whether the coolant level is be- tween the ‘MIN’ and ‘MAX’ marks on the coolant reservoir. When the coolant levels is low, top up with recommended coolant through filler proaches the max level line. Refer ‘Tech- nical information’ section. NOTE In case of emergency, a large amount of water without engine coolant may be added in order to reach a vehicle service location. Whenever coolant has been added, the coolant level in the coolant reservoir should be checked the next few times you drive the vehicle to confirm correct level. For location of Engine coolant con- tainer and filler cap, please refer re- spective Engine Compartment pages. 109  MAINTENANCE NOTE Topping of the coolant should be done in the auxiliary tank only. Make sure that only TATA MOTORS rec- ommended coolant is used. Mixing of different coolants may harm your en- gine’s cooling system and its compo- nents. Do not add extra

different coolants may harm your en- gine’s cooling system and its compo- nents. Do not add extra inhibitors or ad- ditives to the coolant. These can be harmful and compromise the corrosion protection of the engine coolant. The engine cooling system is pres- surized, particularly when the en- gine is warm. When opening the cap, you could be scalded by hot coolant spraying out. There is a risk of injury. Let the engine cool down before opening the cap. Wear eye and hand protection when opening the cap. Open the cap slowly half a turn to allow pressure to escape. 110 Windshield Washer Fluid Level Check that there is washer fluid in the tank. Refill it if necessary. Use a good quality windshield washer fluid, diluted with water as necessary. NOTE Do not use detergent or any other additive in the windshield washer reservoir. This can severely impair visibility when sprayed on the wind- shield, and can also damage your vehicle’s paint. Do not operate washer motor with no fluid in washer

and can also damage your vehicle’s paint. Do not operate washer motor with no fluid in washer tank, washer motor will be damaged For location of Windshield Washer Container and filling cap, please refer respective Engine Compartment pages. Battery Check the battery for electrolyte level against the marking on the battery outer case. Check the battery terminals for cor- rosion (a white or yellowish powder). To remove it, wash the terminals with a solution of baking soda. It will bub- ble up and turn brown. When this stops, wash it off with plain water. Dry off the battery with a cloth or paper towel. Coat the terminals with petroleum jelly to prevent future corrosion. Use a proper wrench to loosen and remove cables from the terminals. Always disconnect the negative (-ve) cable first and reconnect it last. Clean the battery terminals with a terminal cleaning tool or wire brush. Reconnect and tighten the cables, coat the terminals with petroleum jelly.  Ensure that the battery is

and tighten the cables, coat the terminals with petroleum jelly.  Ensure that the battery is securely mounted. If you need to connect the battery to a charger, disconnect both ca- bles to prevent damage to the ve- NOTE During normal operation, the bat- tery generates gas which is explo- sive in nature. A spark or open flame can cause the battery to ex- MAINTENANCE Spark Plug (Petrol) plode causing very serious injuries. Keep all sparks, open flames and smoking materials away from the battery. The battery contains sulphuric acid (electrolyte) which is poisonous and highly corrosive in nature. Get- ting electrolyte in your eyes or on the skin can cause severe burns. Wear protective clothing and a face shield or have a skilled tech- nician to do the battery mainte- nance. hicle’s electrical system. For location of battery, please refer respective Engine Compartment pages Spark Plug Number Gap BOSCH YR7SES 0.7 to 0.8 mm RER8MC | 0.8 to 0.9 mm Federal Mogul (Champion) Tightening Torque -

Gap BOSCH YR7SES 0.7 to 0.8 mm RER8MC | 0.8 to 0.9 mm Federal Mogul (Champion) Tightening Torque - 25 Nm NOTE Use spark plug of recommended make & type for replacement. 111  MAINTENANCE Tyres UNDER INFLATION 1 CORRECT 3 OVER INFLATION OY & Under inflation Correct tyre pressure Over inflation Excessive side tread wear Uniform wear Excessive center tread wear 112 Inflation Check for inflation and condition of your vehicle tyres periodically. Check the pressure in the tyres when they are cold. Keeping the tyres properly inflated gives you the best combination of riding com- fort, handling, tyre life and better fuel ef- ficiency. Over inflation of tyres makes the vehicle ride bumpy and harsh. Tyres are more prone to uneven wear and damage from road hazards. Under inflated tyres reduce your comfort in vehicle handling and are prone to fail- ures due to high temperature. They also cause uneven wear and more fuel con- sumption. NOTE Every time you check inflation pressure, you should also

wear and more fuel con- sumption. NOTE Every time you check inflation pressure, you should also examine tyres for damage, trapping of for- eign objects in the treads and wear. Recommended tyre pressures Version Front Rear 175/65 | Petrol 33 psi/ | 30 psi/ R14 2.3 bar | 2.1 bar [e) ; 45 igo | Diesel | 33-36 | 30 psi/ R13 psi/ 2.3 | 2.1 bar - 2.5 bar  Tyre pressure sticker location Special care for tubeless tyres: While removing tyre from wheel rim and mounting it back on wheel rim, take precautions not to damage tyre bead. Use tyre removal and assem- bly machines. Damage or cut on tyre bead may cause gradual loss of air and deflation of tyre. Do not scratch inside of tubeless tyre with metallic or sharp object. Tube- less tyres are coated with impermea- ble layer of rubber from inside which holds the air inside the tyre. Removal of this layer due to scratching may cause gradual loss of air and defla- tion. If wheel rim gets damaged in service, get the wheel rim repaired/ replaced

of air and defla- tion. If wheel rim gets damaged in service, get the wheel rim repaired/ replaced immediately. Running the vehicle with damaged rim may cause defla- tion of tyre and subsequent dislodg- ing of tyre from rim. MAINTENANCE Maintain recommended _ inflation pressure. Over-inflation, in particu- lar, may cause puncture or bursting of tyre. Life and wear pattern of tyres de- pends on various parameters like tyre pressure, wheel alignment, wheel balancing, tyre rotation, etc. It also largely depends on vehicle speed, load carried, usage, driving habits, road conditions, tyre qual- ity, etc. In case fault is suspected to be due to poor quality of tyres, the same may be taken up with concerned tyre manufacturer. 113  MAINTENANCE Tyre rotation For 175/65 R14 and 155/80 R13 tyres 114 For 175/65 R14 alloy wheel rims with spare wheel of steel wheel rim (if equipped) To help increase tyre life and distribute wear more evenly you should have tyres rotated at specified intervals or

tyre life and distribute wear more evenly you should have tyres rotated at specified intervals or earlier depending on the operation of vehicle. The illustrations shows how to rotate tyres when normal or temporary spare wheel is fitted.  Wheel Alignment Incorrect wheel alignment causes exces- sive and uneven tyre wear. Check whee alignment at specified intervals. Whee alignment values are given below: | Fr Rear Caster 1° 45’ + 45° - Camber 30’ + 30’ - 52’ + 60’ Toe in - 12'+15' Toe Out 0 to 13’ - Wheel Balancing Wheels of your vehicle are balanced for better ride comfort and longer tyre life. Balancing needs to be done whenever tyre is removed from rim. WARNING If the vehicle vibrates abnormally on a smooth road, have the wheel balanced done immediately. Remote Key Battery Replacement Remote control key contains a battery which is housed under the cover. If red LED remote flashes for 5 times af- ter placing and releasing any button on remote. It is recommended to replace battery at a

times af- ter placing and releasing any button on remote. It is recommended to replace battery at a TATA MOTORS Authorised Service Centre. You should, however, proceed as follows if you wish to replace the discharged bat- tery yourself: 1. Open the key blade. 2. Press off the battery cover with your thumb or using a flat screw driver at the points of the arrows. 3. Remove the discharged battery from the key by pressing the battery down- wards at the point of the arrow. 4. MAINTENANCE Insert the new battery. 115  MAINTENANCE 5. Ensure that the “+” symbol on the battery is facing upwards. The cor- rect polarity is shown on the battery cover. 6. Position the battery cover on the key and press on it until it is heard to lock in place. NOTE Use CR 2032 battery only. 116 On Board Diagnostic (OBD Il) System On board Diagnostics or OBD is an auto- motive term referring to a vehicle’s self- diagnostic and reporting capability. The OBD system allows continuous diagno- sis of the components of

and reporting capability. The OBD system allows continuous diagno- sis of the components of the vehicle cor- related with emissions. This system warns the driver, by turning “ON” the Malfunction Indication lamp (MIL) on the instrument cluster, when a fault causes emission levels to increase. The OBD system also has a diagnostic connector that can be interfaced with appropriate diagnostic tools, which makes it possible to read the fault codes stored in the Electronic Control Unit, to- gether with a series of specific parame- ters for Engine operation and Diagnosis. This check can also be carried out by the traffic police. To access the diagnostic connector, open the fuse box cover which is located on RH side below the steering wheel. Re- fer ‘Emergency and Breakdown Assis- tance’ section for removal of cover. /  Service Instructions The TATA TIAGO has been manufactured to give you econom- ical and trouble free performance. To achieve this, please fol- low the instructions as stated.

ical and trouble free performance. To achieve this, please fol- low the instructions as stated. Your vehicle is entitled to three free services (labour only). The free service coupons are attached to the sales invoice. Please present these coupons to the servicing dealer while availing free services. 1st free service - At 1000-2000 kms. OR 2 months, whichever is earlier. 2nd free service - At 7000-8000 kms. OR 6 months, whichever is earlier. 3rd free service - At 14500-15500 kms. OR 12 months, which- ever is earlier. All services other than free services are chargeable. MAINTENANCE Servicing of the vehicle can be done at any TATA MOTORS Authorised Dealer Workshop or TATA MOTORS Authorised Service Centre (TASC). Warranty claims can be settled by any TATA MOTORS Author- ised Dealer Workshop or TATA MOTORS Authorised Service Centre (TASC). 117  MAINTENANCE Service Schedule Operation General Wash the vehicle | Every 1 &Clean Conden- | « . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ser Fins

Wash the vehicle | Every 1 &Clean Conden- | « . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ser Fins ervice Check & Top up Fluids (If re- quired): Transaxle Oil, Coolant, Every Brake Fluid, Bat- | Service tery Electrolyte, Wind Screen washer fluid. Check Fuel Lines | Every for Leakages. Service Check and Cap- ture all DTC's 4 | Clear all faults wy ef ete te tet ete fe fe fete fe fe fe fe] ele te fe fe] ede and Erase the ervice Codes. Check Rubber Boots for damage 5 | &replace if re- 18K / . . . . . . . . . . 12M quired (driveshaft) # - Kms or Months whichever occurs earlier 118  Operation Check Rubber Boots, Rubber seat, Dust cover & Bushes for damage & re- place if required (Suspension) (First at 15K/12M then at every service) 7.5K/ 6M Check for all bolts & nuts (Tighten) 7.5K/ 6M Engine (Diesel) Clean air filter el- ement (more fre- quently for vehi- cle operating as TAXI) 15K / 12M Change engine oil and Oil filter 15K / 12M Drain water from Fuel Filter Bowl 15K / 12M Replace Fuel Pre

engine oil and Oil filter 15K / 12M Drain water from Fuel Filter Bowl 15K / 12M Replace Fuel Pre filter assembly (WIF Sensor to be reused) #45K/ 24M 5 Replace Fuel Main fuel filter as- sembly # 135K / 24M # - Kms or Months whichever occurs earlier 119  MAINTENANCE Operation Replace Diesel - # 75K / 6 | Pressure Regula. |* 7°" tor Check accessory 7 | belt condition vis: | 45K / ually, replace if | 12M found damage Check timing belt | visual condition, |# 105k replace if found | /24M damage Replace air filter element (more 9 | frequently for ve- | $2K/ hicle operating as TAXI) # 60K / 10 Change coolant 36M Replace timing drive kit (Timing |# 150K 11 | belt, Auto ten: | / 36M sioner and Idler) # - Kms or Months whichever occurs earlier 120  Operation Engine (Petrol) Clean air filter el- ement (more fre- 1 | quently for vehi- 15K / . . . . . . . . . . 12M cle operating as TAXI) 2 | Change engine oil | 15K / and Oil filter 12M ° . . ° . . . . . . 3 | Gasoline - Re- 30K / place Fuel Filter

oil | 15K / and Oil filter 12M ° . . ° . . . . . . 3 | Gasoline - Re- 30K / place Fuel Filter 24M ° . . . . 4 | Change Spark 45K / plugs 36M . . . Check accessory belt condition vis- | 15K / ually, replace if | 12M found damage Replace air filter element (more 6 | frequently for ve- | 49K/ . . . 36M hicle operating as TAXI) 7 | Change coolant —_|# 60K / . . 36M # - Kms or Months whichever occurs earlier 121  MAINTENANCE Operation Transaxle tion & rotate 1 | Replace transaxle | 75K/ oil 60M Brakes Check front brake 4 | Pads &rear brake | 15k / linings. Replace if | 12M necessary Replace brake fluid Check brake 2 system compo- en! nents for Leak- ages Tnspect & if nec- essary adjust 15K / 3 | handbrake set- 12M ting Wheels & Tyres 4 | Check & Adjust] # 15K / Wheel alignment | 18M Check for Tyre _ fe7sk/ 2 pressure, condi 42M # - Kms or Months whichever occurs earlier 122  Operation Months Electrical Check specific 1 gravity of battery Every electrolyte (OR seve | o | @ fe te de ete

Electrical Check specific 1 gravity of battery Every electrolyte (OR seve | o | @ fe te de ete fte]e a Every 6 Months) 2 | Check headlamp | 15K / focussing, 12M ° . . . . . . . . . A.C. System Clean filter and check Air-condi- 4 | tioning / Hvac Every system forsatis. [sevice | * | * |e |e fe ete fte]e a factory perfor- mance # - Kms or Months whichever occurs earlier 123  MAINTENANCE Vehicle Parking at One Place for Long Duration (Non - Use Maintenance) If you want to park your vehicle at one place for long duration, following care is to be taken: 1. ™ Park the vehicle in covered, dry and if possible well-ventilated premises. Engage a gear. Remove the battery terminal cables (first remove the cable from the neg- ative terminal). Block the wheel or engage in the gear mode. Clean and protect the painted parts using protective wax. Clean and protect the shiny metal parts using commercially available special compounds. Sprinkle talcum powder on the rub- ber windscreen wiper and lift them

available special compounds. Sprinkle talcum powder on the rub- ber windscreen wiper and lift them off the glass. Slightly open the windows. Cover the vehicle with a cloth or per- forated plastic sheet. Do not use 124 10. 11. sheets of imperforated plastic as they do not allow moisture on the ve- hicle body to evaporate. Inflate the tyres to 0.5 bar above the normal specified pressure and check it at regular intervals. Check the battery charge every six weeks. Do not drain the engine cooling sys- tem.  Fuel Specification Fuel (Diesel) Normal grade BS IV compliant diesel conforming to IS1460 or EN 590 or equivalent is recommended to be used as fuel. Do not use premium diesel available in the market for exam- ple extra premium / Turbojet etc. Recommended fuel specifications Parameter Cetane Number (min) CN 51 Sulphur content mg/kg 50 Lubricity (HFRR) micron 460 NOTE Where oxidation catalytic converter is fitted, it is manda- tory to use Diesel fuel with sulphur contents as given above.

converter is fitted, it is manda- tory to use Diesel fuel with sulphur contents as given above. Use of any other diesel fuel can increase the pol- lutants. At very low temperature, fluidity of diesel may become insuffi- cient due to paraffin separation. It is therefore necessary to mix supplementary fuel with summer or winter grade diesel. TEHCNICAL INFORMATION The supplementary fuel to be used like kerosene. Ratio for mix- ing of supplementary fuel and diesel are shown in the table. Ambient Tempera- Percentage ture up to Deg C. Summer grade die- sel Supplementary fuel 0 30 50 Up to0 O0to-10 70 -10 to -15 Care should be taken that diesel and supplementary fuel are thoroughly mixed before filling. Ambient Tempera- Percentage ture upto Deg C. winter grade diesel | Supplementary fuel Up to-15 -15 to -20 70 -20 and below Do not mix gasoline or alcohol with diesel. This mixture can cause an explosion. 125  TECHNICAL INFORMATION Fuel (Petrol) Unleaded regular grade petrol conforming to IS

explosion. 125  TECHNICAL INFORMATION Fuel (Petrol) Unleaded regular grade petrol conforming to IS 2796:2008 and BS IV specification and RON not less than 91 is recom- mended. It is always recommended to use correct fuel to get optimum emission performance. NOTE Always use petrol of a correct specification in a vehicle fitted with catalytic converter. Even single fill of leaded petrol will seriously damage the catalytic converter. 126  Lubricant Specification TEHCNICAL INFORMATION Use following genuine fluids, coolants and lubricants recommended for optimum performance of your vehicle. Engine Oil Specification 5W30 ACEA AS/B5 TATA SS6579 Company and Brand CASTROL - Magnatec Professional T 5W30 PETRONAS TATA MOTORS Genuine Oil — Engine Oil Synth 5W30 3.5 Litres (Petrol) 4 Litres (Diesel) Coolant (Pre-mixed) (Antifreeze agent + Soft water 40 : 60 ratio) Class II/JIS K2234 TATA SS7700S1 SUNSTAR CCI - Golden Cruiser LLC 2200NP IOCL TATA MOTORS GENUINE COOLANT KOOL PLUS 4 Litres (Petrol) 5

CCI - Golden Cruiser LLC 2200NP IOCL TATA MOTORS GENUINE COOLANT KOOL PLUS 4 Litres (Petrol) 5 Litres (Diesel) Transaxle Oil EP80W LL (Next Gen) PETRONAS - TATA MOTORS Genuine Oil — 1.8 Litres TATA SS6582 Gear Oil New Gen 80 EP LL IOCL TATA MOTORS GENUINE GEAR OIL 80WLL Brake Fluid IS 8654 Type II DOT 4 PETRONAS - Tutela - TOP 45 DOT 4 0.5 Litres TATA SS7711 CASTROL - UBF DOT 4 SUNSTAR CCI - Golden Cruiser Brake Fluid DOT 4 127  TECHNICAL INFORMATION Technical Specifications Parameter Diesel Petrol Engine Model/type 1.05L REVOTORQ 1.2L REVOTRON Capacity 1047 cc 1199 cc Max. Engine output 70 PS @ 4000 +/-50 rpm 85 PS @ 6000 rpm Max. Torque 140 Nm @ 1800 - 3000 rpm 114.4 Nm @ 3500 +/- 70 rpm Clutch Type Single plate dry friction diaphragm type Outside diameter of clutch 200 mm Transaxle Model TA65* Type Synchromesh with overdrive No. Of gears 5-Forward, 1-Reverse Steering Type Electric Power Assisted Steering Brakes Brakes Front (Disc); Rear (Drum) Parking brake Lever type console

Power Assisted Steering Brakes Brakes Front (Disc); Rear (Drum) Parking brake Lever type console mounted cable operated mechanical linkages acting on rear wheels 128  TEHCNICAL INFORMATION Suspension Type Dual path McPherson strut (front) Twist beam Suspension at (rear) Shock absorber Hydraulic Shock absorber Wheels & tyre Tyres 175/65R14 82T or 155/80R13 79T 175/65R14 82T or 155/80R13 79T Wheel rims 5J x 14" or 4.5J x 13" 5J x 14" or 4.5J x 13" Fuel tank Capacity 35 liters 35 liters Cab / body Type Hatch back, Five doors, Steel monocoque body, Passenger vehicle Electrical system System voltage 12 Volts (-ve earth) 12 Volts (-ve earth) Alternator capacity 120 Amp 110 Amp Battery 12V, 50 Ah 12V, 44Ah Main chassis dimension (in mm) Wheel base 2400 2400 Track front 1400 1400 Track rear 1420 1420 Overall length 3746 3746 Overall height 1535 1535 Max. Width 1647 1647 Ground clearance 170 170 129  TECHNICAL INFORMATION Performance Max. Speed 150 kmph 160 kmph Max. Recommended gradability

129  TECHNICAL INFORMATION Performance Max. Speed 150 kmph 160 kmph Max. Recommended gradability 28% 26.8% Minimum Turning Circle Dia. in mm as 9800 9800 per 1S:12222 Minimum Turning Clearance circle dia. 10200 10200 in mm as per 1S:12222 Weight (in kg) Gross vehicle weight 1480 (XZ), 1465 (XT), 1445 (XM), 1412 (XZ), 1397 (XT), 1377 (XM), 1440 (XE), 1430 (XB) 1375 (XE), 1330 (XB) Kerb weight (unladen) 1080 (XZ), 1065 (XT), 1045 (XM), 1012 (XZ), 997 (XT), 977 (XM), 1040 (XE), 1030 (XB 975 (XE), 930 (XB) 130  TEHCNICAL INFORMATION Vehicle Dimensions 131  TECHNICAL INFORMATION Aggregate Identification Numbers Transaxle No. Punching .> VIN plate near front passenger seat Engine No. Plate - Petrol 132  Car Care Your vehicle is subjected to many exter- nal influences such as climate, road con- ditions, industrial pollution and proximity to the sea. These conditions demand regular care of the vehicle body. Dirt, in- sects, bird droppings, oil, grease, fuel and stone chippings should be

the vehicle body. Dirt, in- sects, bird droppings, oil, grease, fuel and stone chippings should be removed as soon as possible. Washing Following these tips while washing your vehicle. Hand wash: 1. Always wash your vehicle in shade and the surface is at room temperature. 2. Wash with mild vehicle wash soap like ‘Car Shampoo’ and use a soft bristle brush, sponge or soft cloth and rinse it frequently while washing to avoid scratches. CAR CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES 3. To avoid scratches, please wear soft gloves. Remove finger rings, nails, wrist watch while washing. 4. To remove stubborn stains and con- taminants like tar, use turpentine or cleaners like ‘Stain remover’ which are safe for paint surfaces. 5. Avoid substances like petrol, diesel, kerosene, benzene, thinner or other sol- vents that cause damage to paint. 6. Dry your vehicle thoroughly to prevent any damp spots. 7. Rinse all surfaces thoroughly to pre- vent any traces of soap and other clean- ers as this may lead to the

surfaces thoroughly to pre- vent any traces of soap and other clean- ers as this may lead to the formation of stains on the painted surface later. Do not direct high pressure washer fluid/ water jets (Pressure above 0.5 Bar) at electrical devices and con- necter during washing. This is to pre- vent malfunction / failure of electri- cal system due to water ingress. After drying the vehicle, inspect it for chips and scratches that could allow cor- rosion to start. Apply touch up paint where necessary. Cleaning of Carpets Vacuum clean the carpet regularly to re- move dirt. Dirt will make the carpet wear out faster. Periodically shampoo the car- pet to keep it looking new. Use carpet cleaners (preferably foam type). Follow the instructions that come with the cleaner. Apply it with a sponge or soft brush. Keep the carpeting as dry as possible by not adding water to the foam. NOTE Avoid wiping of painted surface in dry condition as it may leave scratches on the painted surface. 133  CAR

of painted surface in dry condition as it may leave scratches on the painted surface. 133  CAR CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES Cleaning of Windows, Front and Rear Glasses Clean the windows inside and outside with commercially available glass clean- ers. This will remove the haze that builds up on the inside of windows. Use a soft cloth or paper towels to clean all glass and plastic surfaces. RFID TAG RFID TAG is pasted on front windshield from the inside. It enables Electronic toll collection. « TATA DO NOT TRY TO PEEL OFF RFID TAG fT WILL BE PERMANENTLY DAMAGED. Do not attempt to rip or tamper the tag. It will disable the functionality of the tag. 134 Waxing Waxing and polishing is recommended to maintain the gloss and wet-look ap- pearance of your paint finish. 1. Use good quality polish and wax for your vehicle. 2. Re-wax your vehicle when the water does not slip off the surface but collects over the surface in patches. Polishing Polishes and cleaners can restore shine to the painted

over the surface in patches. Polishing Polishes and cleaners can restore shine to the painted surface that has oxidized and become dull. They normally contain mild abrasives and solvents that remove the top layer of the finish coat. Polish your vehicle, if the finish does not regain its original shine after using wax. Interior fabric cleaning tips 1. Stains should be treated immediately. If left for a long time, they can leave a permanent mark. 2. Cleaning the stains immediately is im- portant especially for stains which con- tain artificial colors in the stain creating liquid or semisolid substance. The color- ant may leave a stain if kept for longer time. 3. Stain should not be removed by rub- bing. As far as possible, try to blot or lift the stain with cloth or plastic spatula and then clean the remaining stain with cloth or sponge. 4. If the stain has dried, then gently brush off the material and then press with damp cloth or sponge till it disap- pears. 5. Do not use household

the material and then press with damp cloth or sponge till it disap- pears. 5. Do not use household detergents to clean the fabric. 6. Always use clean cotton cloth for cleaning.  Paint Care Following guidelines will help you to pro- tect your Vehicle from corrosion effec- tively. Proper cleaning In order to protect your vehicle from cor- rosion it is recommended that you wash your vehicle thoroughly and frequently in case: e There is a heavy accumulation of dirt and mud especially on the under- body. e It is driven in areas having high at- mospheric pollution due to smoke, soot, dust, iron dust and other chem- ical pollutants. e Itis driven in coastal areas. e The underbody must be thoroughly pressure washed after every three months. In addition to regularly washing your car, the following precautions need to be taken. CAR CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES Periodic Inspection e Regularly inspect your vehicle for any damage in the paint film such as deep scratches and immediately get them

your vehicle for any damage in the paint film such as deep scratches and immediately get them repaired from an authorized service outlet, as these defects tend to accelerate corrosion. e Inspect mud liners for damages. e Keep all drain holes clear from clog- ging. Proper Parking e Always park your vehicle in shade to protect it from harsh sunlight or in a well-ventilated garage so that there is no dampness on any part of the ve- hicle. Wiper care e To prevent damage to the wipers or windshield, do not operate the wip- ers when the windshield is dry. e To prevent damage to the wiper arms and other components, do not at- tempt to move the wipers manually. 135  CAR CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES Extended Warranty TATA MOTORS recommends the purchase of its extended warranty program. Coverage - Mechanical + Electrical Benefits e Insures you against unforeseen break down repair bills. e Documentation is simple and hassle free. e Near cashless & speedy claim Term 24 + 12 months or 75,000 kms

is simple and hassle free. e Near cashless & speedy claim Term 24 + 12 months or 75,000 kms whichever occurs first OR 24 + 24 months or 1,00,000 kms whichever occurs first lh Extended Warranty is available in the dealership from where you have purchased your vehicle. We strongly recommend purchase of Extended Warranty at time of purchase of your vehicle. Extended Warranty can be availed till 421 days from date of purchase of vehicle. The Dealer Service Marketing Executive shall explain to you the Terms and conditions, Coverage and Owner’s respon- sibility. Extended Warranty Booklet & Cover Note The Extended Warranty booklet and cover note is the basis of the contract between TATA MOTORS LIMITED and the Owner of the vehicle shown on the Extended Warranty booklet. The Customer is to retain this booklet and the same to be produced to the dealer while claiming benefit s under Extended Warranty. 136  CAR CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES Note e The 12 or 24 months extended warranty does not

136  CAR CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES Note e The 12 or 24 months extended warranty does not follow the 24 months Manufacturer's warranty. e The extended warranty comes into force once the manufacturer’s warranty expires e.g. after 24 Months. e It is more restrictive as by the time it comes into force the vehicle is already 24 months old. What is covered? e Mechanical / Electrical break down as defined in this warranty and confirmed by the dealer within the stipulated terms and conditions. e TATA MOTORS dealer shall either repair or replace any part found to be defective with a new part or an equivalent at no cost to the owner for parts or labour. e Such defective parts which have been replaced will become property of TATA MOTORS LIMITED. e Comprehensive list of parts covered is mentioned in the page 9-12 of the Extended Warranty Booklet. What is not covered? Please refer the Extended Warranty Booklet for details of the exclusion list. Owner’s Responsibility: e Proper use, maintenance

Booklet for details of the exclusion list. Owner’s Responsibility: e Proper use, maintenance and care of the vehicle in accordance with the instructions contained in the Owner’s Manual and Service Booklet. The records of the same to be ensured in Owner’s Manual. e Retention of maintenance service bills. | / We have been explained the Terms and conditions, Coverage and Owner’s responsibility by the Dealer Service Marketing Executive. oO | wish to avail / O Do not wish to avail extended warrant policy. Customer’s Signature Dealer’s Signature 137  CAR CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES Value Added Services Why are Corrosion Protection Waxes neces- sary? ~ WURTH AO ANG Corrosion is caused by: BAI AUl@ 6 - Aan AOR Water / salt water acid rain & atmospheric fallouts. Critical areas are: Cavities: joints, crevices, spot welds, underbody e Corrosion is the most important factor when we talk about the vehicle life. If you treat your car you can prolong the life. e Itis very dangerous to drive

the vehicle life. If you treat your car you can prolong the life. e Itis very dangerous to drive around in a corroded vehicle. e The corrosion creeps onto the vehicle from the inside and from the outside. The most dangerous kind of corrosion is often not discovered until it is too late. Benefits of Anti - Rust treatment: e A professionally applied range of world class products offering real value to the new and used vehicle customer. e The treatment has been developed to withstand the harshest environmental and climatic conditions (rust. Pollutants, stone and gravel impact, etc.) e Insulate cabin space from external noises. e Expensive tin work and Denting / Painting avoided. e Higher resale value for the vehicle. e Higher safety - uncorroded vehicle e 10 free checkups available 138  CAR CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES Engine Wax Treatment Engine Wax is a beige colored transparent lacquer coating on the engine compartment. e Corrosion Prevention for the Engine compartment. e Neat, clean

coating on the engine compartment. e Corrosion Prevention for the Engine compartment. e Neat, clean and New Look to Engine compartment. e No effect on MPFI vehicles. e Engine wax can withstand upto 200 degrees temperature. e No need of cleaning the engine compartment with diesel once engine wax is sprayed. e Life of over a year. Sound Deadening System Door vibration deadeners - These pads when stuck on the insides of the sheet metal increase sheet metal rigidity, reduce vibra- tions and increase riding comfort. e Used for reducing the sheet metal vibration in a vehicle. e Product to be used once in the life of the vehicle - Life Time Warranty e Effect is lifelong i.e. until & unless pads are physically removed. e Negligible increase in Weight & hence no effect on fuel consumption. e Areas covered - four doors, rear quarter panels & dickey. In case of diesel vehicles, can be used in the bonnet. 139  CAR CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES TATA MOTORS has tied up with M/s Wuerth, M/s

in the bonnet. 139  CAR CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES TATA MOTORS has tied up with M/s Wuerth, M/s Autokrom, M/s 3M India Ltd & M/s Bardahl for these world class treatment at affordable prices. These treatments are available in all authorized workshops. The Dealer Service Marketing Executive will explain to you the benefits and terms and conditions of this treatment. | /We have been explained the Benefits, Terms and conditions and the prices of these treatments by the Dealer Service Marketing Executive. O | wish to avail / oO Do not wish to avail extended warrant policy. Customer’s Signature Dealer’s Signature 140  CAR CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES Vehicle Exterior Enrichment (ia =—= Why vehicles are painted? e For Corrosion protection of the metal surfaces. ‘ e Ease of application from other corrosion protection treatments. A LU eK re e Cheaper than other corrosion protection methods eg. Galvanizing, ano- ro K dizing. e For decoration and identification. Various Environmental Hazards

Galvanizing, ano- ro K dizing. e For decoration and identification. Various Environmental Hazards affecting paints Environmental hazards: destroy your vehicle's finish. Even as your new vehicle rolls off the assembly line, the paint is not protected. The enemy Ultraviolet Rays, Pollution, Tree Sap, Bird Droppings, Car Wash Chemicals, Road Salt, Acid Rain. Benefits: Vehicle Exterior Enrichment e Removal of medium scratches, orange peel, oxidation, dust nibs etc & swirl marks from painted surface. e Restoration of original gloss levels, UV protection after gloss is restored. e Cleaning & dressing of tyres, Bumpers & all exterior plastic moldings/trims. TATA MOTORS has tied up with M/s Autokrom, M/s 3M & M/s Wuerth for this world class treatment at affordable prices. This treatment is available in all authorized workshops. The Dealer Service Marketing Executive will explain to you the benefits and terms and conditions of this treatment. 141  CAR CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES Vehicle

benefits and terms and conditions of this treatment. 141  CAR CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES Vehicle Interior Enrichment Why protect your new car’s fabric interior? e Someone will soil your vehicle's fabric carpet or seats. e Asignificant detractor from your vehicle's resale value. e Apermanent stain on your vehicle's interior fabric. The enemy: Drink Spills - Food Stains - Mud - Ultraviolet Rays Pets - Traffic Benefits: Vehicle Interior Enrichment e Removal of medium stains and dirt from all interior parts of the car i.e carpet, upholstery and roof lining. e Cleaning of windshield and all windows (inside and outside) e Dressing of all internal plastics (eg: door pad trims) and rubber parts. e The treatment involves cleaning and dressing of all parts of the exposed interiors. e Specialised protection for seat fabric from liquid spills. TATA MOTORS has tied up with M/s Wurth and M/s M/s Autokrom for this world class treatment at affordable prices. This treat- ment is available in all

Autokrom for this world class treatment at affordable prices. This treat- ment is available in all authorized workshops. The Dealer Service Marketing Executive will explain to you the benefits and terms and conditions of this treatment. | / We have been explained the Terms and conditions, Coverage and Owner’s responsibility by the Dealer Service Marketing Executive. O | wish to avail / O Do not wish to avail extended warrant policy. Customer’s Signature Dealer’s Signature 142  CAR CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES Why de-carbonisation is required in Diesel engines? Carbon deposits accumulate over time in injector pump, fuel injectors, combustion chambers & intake valves. This causes rough idle, vibration at idle, loss of power, hesitation, misfire, decreased mileage, increased smoke, slowed throttle response. Decarbonisation process is designed to remove these deposits e Clean fuel injectors e Clean throttle body e Clean plenum and air-intake e Clean intake valves and ports e Remove

e Clean throttle body e Clean plenum and air-intake e Clean intake valves and ports e Remove combustion chamber deposits e In maintaining correct balance of fuel and air in system Auto Aduitivas Resulting in e Comprehensive clean-up of combustion chamber, induction system & fuel injector deposits e Better fuel economy e Increased engine performance and response e Smooth Starts, idles and quieter run e Better combustion & increased power e Faster starting & warm-up e Reduced emissions e Reduced injector & pump wear, thereby resulting in savings in maintenance costs It is approved for low sulphur diesel fuel and EGR equipped diesel engines 143  CAR CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES Please note: These are symptomatic treatments to be availed beyond 20000 kms and only when you have problems in your car as mentioned in first paragraph and are to be done only after you give your consent for carrying out these treatments. Engine Flush treatment helps in e Safely and effectively cleaning and

out these treatments. Engine Flush treatment helps in e Safely and effectively cleaning and removing oxidized particles and fluid contamination left behind from previous oil changes e Preventing further deposits. e Freeing sticky lifters and rings e Chemically “tuning” the engine during driving e Restoring pep and power e Removing sludge from valve train e Promoting fuel economy and improving overall engine operation Special products used for improving compression To fortify new oil and seal rings for optimum performance, special products from BG (RF7) and Bardhal (Special Duty) are added to new engine oil. This makes it suitable for petrol and diesel engine applications Resulting in: e Improved engine compression e Increased power and increased fuel economy e Reduced start-up wear e Increased engine life, especially under severe service conditions e Reduced emissions and oil consumption e Improved power & performance of older engines e Prevention of sludge, gum and varnish formation

e Improved power & performance of older engines e Prevention of sludge, gum and varnish formation on engine parts both petrol & diesel engines 144  CAR CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES Please note: These are symptomatic treatments to be availed beyond 20000 kms and only when you have problems in your car as mentioned in first paragraph and are to be done only after you give your consent for carrying out these treatments. TATA MOTORS has tied up with M/s HOEC Bardahl India Ltd and M/s BG for these world class treatment at affordable prices. These treatments are available in all authorized workshops. The Dealer Service Marketing Executive will explain to you the ben- efits and terms and conditions of this treatment. | / We have been explained the Benefit s, Terms and conditions and the prices of these treatment s by the Dealer Service Marketing Executive. Oo! wish to avail / O Do not wish to avail extended warrant policy. Customer’s Signature Dealer’s Signature 145  146  We WARRANT each

to avail extended warrant policy. Customer’s Signature Dealer’s Signature 145  146  We WARRANT each TATA TIAGO vehicle and parts thereof manufactured by us to be free from defect in material and workmanship subject to the following terms and conditions: 1. This warranty shall be for a period of 24 months from the date of sale of the car or a mileage of 75,000 Kms which- ever occurs earlier. 2. Our obligation under this warranty shall be limited to repair- ing or replacing, free of charge, such parts of the car which, in our opinion, are defective, on the car being brought to us or to our dealers within the period. The parts so repaired or replaced shall also be warranted for quality and workman- ship but such warranty shall be co-terminus with this origi- nal warranty. 3. Any part which is found to be defective and is replaced by us under the warranty shall be our property. 4. As for such parts as Tyres, Batteries, Audio and / or Video equipment (if any), etc. not manufactured by us

parts as Tyres, Batteries, Audio and / or Video equipment (if any), etc. not manufactured by us but sup- plied by other parties, this warranty shall not apply, but buy- ers of the car shall be entitled to, so far as permissible by law, all such rights as we may have against such parties under their warranties in respect of such parts. 5. This warranty shall not apply if the car or any part thereof is repaired or altered otherwise than in accordance with our standard repair procedure or by any person other than from our sales or service establishments, our authorized deal- ers, service centres or service points in any way so as, in WARRANTY - TERMS AND CONDITIONS our judgment which shall be final and binding, to affect its reliability, nor shall it apply if, in our opinion which shall be final and binding, the car is subjected to misuse, negli- gence, improper or inadequate maintenance or accident or loading in excess of such carrying capacity as certified by us, or such services as

or accident or loading in excess of such carrying capacity as certified by us, or such services as prescribed in our Owner's Manual are not carried out by the buyer through our sales or service establishments, our authorized dealers, service centres or service points. This warranty shall not apply to the replacement of nor- mal wear parts, including without limitation, spark plugs, drive belts, hoses, wiper blades, fuses, clutch disc, brake shoes, brake pads, cables and all rubber parts (except oil seal and glass run). This warranty shall not cover any inherent normal deterio- ration of the car or any of its parts arising from the actual use of the car or any damage due to negligent or improper operation or storage of the car. This warranty shall not apply to normal maintenance ser- vices like oils & fluid changes, head lamps focusing, fas- tener retightening, wheel balancing and alignment, tyre ro- tation, adjustment of valve clearance, fuel timing, ignition timing and consumables

tyre ro- tation, adjustment of valve clearance, fuel timing, ignition timing and consumables like bulbs, fuel, air & oil filters and gas leaks in case of air conditioned cars. This warranty shall not apply to any damage or deteriora- tion caused by environmental pollution or bird droppings. 147  WARRANTY - TERMS AND CONDITIONS 10. 11. 12. 13. Slight irregularities not recognized as affecting the function or quality of the vehicle or parts, such as slight noise or vi- bration, defects appearing only under particular or irregular operations are items considered characteristics of the ve- hicle. This warranty shall be null and void if the car is subjected to abnormal use such as rallying, racing or participation in any other competitive sport. This warranty shall not apply to any repair or replacements as a result of accident or col- lision. This warranty is expressly in lieu of all warranties, whether by law or otherwise, expressed or implied, and all other ob- ligations or liabilities

whether by law or otherwise, expressed or implied, and all other ob- ligations or liabilities on our part and we neither assume, nor authorize any person to assume on our behalf, any other liability arising from the sale of the car or any agree- ment in relation thereto. The buyer shall have no other rights except those set out above and have, in particular, no right to repudiate the sale, or any agreement or to claim any reduction in the purchase price of the car, or to demand any damages or compensa- tion for losses, incidental or indirect, or inconvenience or consequential damages, loss of car, or loss of time, or oth- erwise, incurred or accrued. Any claim arising from this warranty shall be recognized only if it is notified in writing to us or to our authorized dealer without any delay soon after such defects as cov- ered & ascertained under this warranty. 148 14. 15. This warranty is fully transferable to subsequent vehi- cle owner. Only unexpired remaining period of war- ranty

is fully transferable to subsequent vehi- cle owner. Only unexpired remaining period of war- ranty applies. We reserve our rights to make any change or modification in design of the car or its parts or to introduce any improve- ment therein or to incorporate in the car any additional part or accessory at any time without incurring any obligation to incorporate the same in the cars previously sold.  TATA MOTORS LTD. is committed to produce vehicles using en- vironmentally sustainable technology. A number of features have been incorporated in TATA MOTORS passenger vehicles which have been designed to ensure environmental compati- bility throughout the life cycle of the vehicle. We would like to inform you that your vehicle meets emission norms and this is being regularly validated at the manufacturing stages. As a user you too can protect the environment by operating your vehicle in a proactive manner. A lot depends on your driv- ing style and the way you maintain your vehicle. We have

manner. A lot depends on your driv- ing style and the way you maintain your vehicle. We have given a few tips for your guidance. Driving Avoid frequent and violent acceleration. Do not carry any unnecessary weight in the vehicle as it overloads the engine. Avoid using devices requiring high power consumption during slow city traffic condition. Monitor the vehicle’s fuel consumption regularly and if showing rising trend get the car immediately attended at the Company’s Authorised Service Outlets. > Switch off the engine during long stops at traffic jams or signals. If you need to keep the engine running, avoid un- necessary revving it up or stopping and starting. It is not necessary to rev up the engine before turning it off as it unnecessarily burns the fuel. Vv Vv Vv ENVIRONMENT SAFETY > Shift to higher gears as soon as it is possible. Use each gear upto 2/3rd of its maximum engine speed. > Achart indicating gear shifting speeds is given in this book. Maintenance > Ensure that

speed. > Achart indicating gear shifting speeds is given in this book. Maintenance > Ensure that recommended maintenance is carried out on the vehicle regularly at the Authorised Service Outlets. > Assoonas you see any leakages of oil or fuel in the vehicle we recommend to get it attended immediately. > Use only recommended grades and specified quantity of lubricants. Get your vehicle checked for emission periodically by an au- thorised dealer. Ensure that fuel filter, oil filter and breather are checked periodically and replaced, if required, as recommended by TATA MOTORS. > Do not pour used oils or coolants into the sewage drains, garden soil or open streams. Dispose the used filters and batteries in compliance with the current legislation. Do not allow unauthorized person to tamper with engine settings or to carry modifications on the vehicle. Never allow the vehicle to run out of fuel. Parts like brake liners, clutch discs should be vacuum cleaned. Do not use compressed air for

fuel. Parts like brake liners, clutch discs should be vacuum cleaned. Do not use compressed air for cleaning these parts which may spread dust in the atmosphere. Vv Vv Vv Vv 149  ENVIRONMENT SAFETY While carrying out servicing or repairs of your vehicle, you should pay keen attention to some of the important engine aggregates and wiring harness which greatly affect emis- sion. These components are: 1. NOaPRWON % Fuel injection equipment’s - pump, rail, injectors, nozzles and high pressure pipes. Air Intake & Exhaust system, especially for leakages. Cylinder head for valve leakage. All filters such as air, oil and fuel filters (check periodically). Turbocharger. Electrical connections. If the ‘Service’ lamp continuously glows, please take the ve- hicle to a TATA MOTORS authorized service outlet. Catalytic Converter. EMS wiring harness i.e. electrical connections to all sen- sors and actuators. This Owner’s manual contains further information on driving precautions and maintenance care

This Owner’s manual contains further information on driving precautions and maintenance care leading to environment protection. Please familiarize yourself with these aspects be- fore driving. 150  © 24x7 ON-ROAD ASSISTANCE 1600 200 7979 Fo a — ae ’ Be ae i QuALI TY SI ERV! cE ssc quaury Set Ma ae P win DOORSTEP SERVICE MOBILE SERVICE dA “a? . dw Ba TS OMe ttcommert mm QUICK REPAIR Jimg 9) 100-50 ny CE JR SEFINISHING SOLUTIONS BODY & PAI AT A CLICK REPAIR IN MINUTES DELIVERY AUT ce ea / A EXTENDED WARRANTY RAPID REPAIR ORIGINAL PARTS bated ARE UP TO 4 YEARS MINOR BODY REPAIRS UNMATCHED QUALITY HOBRIZONE <T  Call us: 1-800-209-7979 Mail us: customercare@tatamotors.com Visit us: service.tatamotors.com 5424 5840 99 01 VlFAiGD FROM TATA MOTORS TATA MOTORS | SERVICE RESPONSIVE + RELIABLE+ BEST VALUE Developed by: Technical Literature Cell, ERC.

