<p TATA TiGOR OWNER’S MANUAL TATA MOTORS  CUSTOMER ASSISTANCE In our constant endeavor to provide assistance and complete service backup, TATA MOTORS has established an all India cus- tomer assistance centre. In case you have a query regarding any aspect of your vehicle, our Customer Assistance Centre will be glad to assist you on our Toll Free no. 1800 209 7979 DOORSTEP SERVICE MOBILE Sanvice SPEED-0-SERVICE FASTER SERVICE Deuveny g ASSESSMENT TRAINING A ORIGINAL PARTS UNMATCHED QUALITY You can also approach nearest TATA MOTORS dealer. A sepa- rate Dealer network address booklet is provided with the Owner’s manual. TATA MOTORS 24X7 Roadside Assistance Program offers tech- nical help in the event of a breakdown. Call to the toll-free Roadside Assistance. For additional information, refer to "24X7 Roadside Assis- tance" section in the Owner’s manual. ONLINE SERVICE APPOINTMENT aracticn REFINISHING SOLUTIONS BODY & PAINT QUICK REPAIR EXTENDED WARRANTY UP TO 4 vEARS VALUE CARE MAINTENANCE

SOLUTIONS BODY & PAINT QUICK REPAIR EXTENDED WARRANTY UP TO 4 vEARS VALUE CARE MAINTENANCE PLANS. RAPID REPAIR MINOR BODY REPAIRS  Dear Customer, Welcome to the TATA MOTORS family. We congratulate you on the purchase of your new vehicle and are privileged to have you as our valued customer. We urge you to read this Owner's Manual carefully and familiarize yourself with the equipment descriptions and operating instruc- tions before driving. Always carry out prescribed service / maintenance work as well as any required repairs at an authorized TATA MOTORS Dealers or Authorized Service Centre’s (TASCs). Use only genuine parts for continued reliability, safety and performance of your vehicle. You are welcome to contact our dealer or Customer Assistance toll free no. (1800 209 7979) in case of any query or support required. We wish you a safe and pleasant driving experience. TATA MOTORS Bombay House, 24, Homi Modi Street, Hutatma Chowk, Fort, Mumbai — 400001  IMPORTANT INFORMATION Before

House, 24, Homi Modi Street, Hutatma Chowk, Fort, Mumbai — 400001  IMPORTANT INFORMATION Before driving, read this Owner’s manual carefully and familiarize yourself with your vehicle. For your own safety and a longer vehicle life, follow the instructions, ‘Warnings’ and ‘Notes’ in this manual. Ignoring them could result in damage to the vehicle or personal injury to you or others. The Owner’s manual and other booklets are important documents and should always be kept in the vehicle. If you sell the vehicle, always pass on the documents to the new owner. This Owner's Manual describes all variants of the model and all standard/optional equipment of your vehicle available at the time of printing. Please note that your vehicle may not be equipped with all features described. TATA MOTORS Limited reserves the right to introduce changes in the design, equipment and technical features without any obligation to install them on the vehicles previously sold. The equipment in your vehicle may

any obligation to install them on the vehicles previously sold. The equipment in your vehicle may therefore differ from that shown in the descriptions and illustrations. Do not carry out any modification including fitment of non-genuine accessories on your vehicle. Safety, handling, performance and durability, may otherwise be adversely affected and may violate government regulations. TATA MOTORS Limited accepts no liability for damage resulting from the modifications or use of non-genuine accessories. All rights reserved. The information in this manual shall not be copied, translated or otherwise reproduced, in whole or in part, without written permission from TATA MOTORS. © Copyright 2019 TATA MOTORS  CONTENTS [a Safety | Opening & Closing [<] Dashboard & Features Important Information Flip Key Cockpit Safe Driving 01 Doors 21 Instrument Cluster- Analog 29 Seat Belts 04 Windows 22 Driver Information Display 34 Child Restraint System (CRS) 07 Bonnet 24 Driver Information Settings 39

Information Display 34 Child Restraint System (CRS) 07 Bonnet 24 Driver Information Settings 39 Supplementary Restraint Trunk lid 25 Instrument Cluster - Digital 43 System (SRS) (Airbags) 11 frees ae Warning Lamps 56 ABS 18 Audio Reminders 63 EBD 18 Combi Switches 64 Fascia Switches 65 Steering Wheel Switches 67 Mic 67  CONTENTS [s) Dashboard & Features | 4 | Stowage Areas 5 | Climate Control Infotainment System Storage Compartments Air Vents & Distribution USB/AUX 68 Glove Box 74 HVAC Controls 78 Power Socket 68 Driver side pocket 74 Functions & Settings 80 Antenna 69 Center Console 75 Fully Automatic temperature Control 82 Roof Lamp 69 Foldable arm rest 75 HVAC sensors 88 Roof Grab Handles 70 Trunk lid Compartment 75 Boot Lamp 70 Card Holder 76 Tag Holder 71 Hooks 76 vi  CONTENTS c=” 9 Oca down Assistance Pre-Driving Checks 89 Maintenance & Service 147 Emergency Equipment 117 Driving Tips 90 Engine Compartment 148 Hazard Warning Switch 118 Seat Adjustments 93 Engine Oil Level 151 In

90 Engine Compartment 148 Hazard Warning Switch 118 Seat Adjustments 93 Engine Oil Level 151 In Case of Flat Tyre 119 Rear View Mirrors 94 Battery 154 Spare Wheel 119 Steering Wheel Adjustments 96 Spark Plug 155 Jump Lead Starting 124 Starting the Engine 97 Tyres 155 Towing 125 Gear Shifting & Driving 98 Key Battery Replacement 158 Fuses 128 AMT Gearbox 100 On Board Diagnostic (OBD) 159 Bulb Replacement 135 Driving Mode 102 Service Instructions 160 24x7 Road Side Assistance 140 Parking brakes 107 Service Schedule 161 Vehicle Tracking System (VTS) 143 Reverse Park Assist 108 Parking for Long Durations 167 vii  CONTENTS Fo | Technical Information Car Care and Value Warranty — Terms and Added Services Conditions Fuel Specification 169 Car Care 179 Warranty 189 Lubricant Specification 171 Washing 179 Technical Specification 173 Envi t Safet Waxing 180 nvironment satety Vehicle Dimensions 177 Polishing 180 Environmental Safety 191 Aggregate Identification Nos 178 Interior Fabric Cleaning

Polishing 180 Environmental Safety 191 Aggregate Identification Nos 178 Interior Fabric Cleaning 180 Paint Care 181 Extended Warranty 182 Value Added Services 184 Vehicle Exterior Enrichment 186 Vehicle Interior Enrichment 187 viii  Important Information In this Owner's Manual, you will find the text under the heading “WARNING” and “NOTE” which highlights important infor- mation. Pay particular attention to these highlighted messages. Indicates additional information that will assist you in gaining the optimum benefit and care for your vehicle. WARNING Indicates procedures or information that must be followed precisely in or- der to avoid the possibility of severe personal injury and serious damage to the vehicle. Safe Driving Safety consciousness not only ensures your safety and the safety of other road users, but it also helps to reduce the wear and tear on your vehicle. Safe driving depends on: e How quickly you make decisions to avoid an accident. Your ability to concentrate. e

depends on: e How quickly you make decisions to avoid an accident. Your ability to concentrate. e How well you can see and judge ob- jects. e How well familiar you are with your vehicle controls and its capabilities. NOTE Fatigue is a result of physical or men- tal exertion that impairs judgment. Driver fatigue may be due to inade- quate sleep, extended work hours, strenuous work or non-work activities or combination of other factors. Take rest at regular intervals. SAFETY Safety Tips e Always take into account the road conditions, weather conditions, vehi- cle speed in order to prevent acci- dents. e Turn ‘ON’ the side indicators at least 30 meters before taking a turn or changing the lane. e Decelerate to a safe speed before taking turn. Do not apply brakes dur- ing cornering. e When overtaking other vehicles, watch out for the oncoming vehicle. e Never drive under the influence of al- cohol or drugs. e If your vehicle is equipped with info- tainment/navigation system, set and make

cohol or drugs. e If your vehicle is equipped with info- tainment/navigation system, set and make changes to your travel route only when the vehicle is parked. e Program radio presets with the vehi- cle parked, and use your pro- grammed presets to make radio use quicker and simpler.  SAFETY Driving through water Do not drive through flooded areas. Judge the depth of water before driving through it. Otherwise, water may enter the vehicle interior or the engine com- partment. If at all the situation demands that you have to drive through water then; e Keep engine in higher RPM and crawl the vehicle in low gear. e Flowing or rushing water creates strong forces. Driving through flow- ing water could cause the vehicle to about trying to drive through flowing water. e Lightly apply the brake pedal to dry the liners until the brakes work nor- mally once you are out of water. WARNING : Do not attempt to start the engine if vehicle gets flooded due to water. Tow the vehicle to a safe place.

attempt to start the engine if vehicle gets flooded due to water. Tow the vehicle to a safe place. Con- tact a nearest TATA MOTORS Author- ised Service Centre Driving on a rainy day e Check wiper blades, lights and brakes for proper functioning and condition. e Check the tyre treads depth, the con- dition of the tread and tyre. e Avoid harsh braking and sharp turns. It may cause loss of control and lead toa skid. e Forslowing down, shift to lower gears and brake gently. e Keep lights ‘ON’ if visibility is poor. Driving on wet roads On wet road or during light showers, “Aq- uaplaning” can occur. “Aquaplaning” is the loss of direct contact between the road surface and the vehicle’s tires due to a water film forming between them. Steering or braking the vehicle can be very difficult, and loss of control can oc- cur. There is no hard and fast rule about aq- uaplaning. The best advice is to slow down when the road is wet. If you have driven for a long time in heavy rain without braking,

slow down when the road is wet. If you have driven for a long time in heavy rain without braking, there may be a delayed reaction from the brakes when braking for the first time. You have to depress the brake pedal more firmly. Maintain a greater distance from the vehicle in front.  Night driving Ensure that all lights are working and windshield, window glasses are clean. Drive more slowly at night than in the daytime, as the visual range is re- stricted at night. Maintain a speed such that you can stop within illumi- nated distance of head lamps. Do not use the high beam unless in- evitable. It may dazzle the driver of the oncoming vehicle, thus causing an accident. Use head lamp main/dip beam to alert other road users on turns/ cross roads etc. Use side indicators for lane change or turning. Driving on gradients When climbing gradient, the vehicle may begin to slow down and show a lack of power. If this happens, shift to a lower gear and apply power smoothly so that there is no loss

of power. If this happens, shift to a lower gear and apply power smoothly so that there is no loss of traction. When driving down a hill, the engine braking should be used by shifting into a lower gear. Do not drive in neutral gear or switch off the engine. WARNING : On long and steep gradients you must reduce the load on the brakes by shifting early to a lower gear. This allows you to take advantage of the engine braking effect and helps avoid overheating of service brakes result- ing in reduced braking efficiency. SAFETY Driving on highway Stopping distance progressively _in- creases with vehicle speed. Maintain a sufficient distance between your vehicle and the vehicle ahead. For long distance driving, perform safety checks before starting a trip and take rest at certain intervals to prevent fa- tigue.  SAFETY Seat Belts This section of user manual describes your vehicle seat belt, airbag and Child restraints system. Please read and fol- low all these instructions carefully to

airbag and Child restraints system. Please read and fol- low all these instructions carefully to minimise risk of severe injury or death. e Seat belts are the primary re- straints system in the vehicle. All occupants, including the driver, should always wear their seat belts to minimize the risk of injury. e Sit back and adjust the front seat. Make sure that your seat is ad- justed to a good driving position and the back of the seat is upright. Buckling the Shoulder Seatbelt e Grasp the tongue and slowly pull out the seat belt over the shoulder and across the chest. When the seat belt is long enough to fit, insert the tongue into the lock buckle until you hear a “CLICK” which indicates that the seat belt is securely locked. Position the lap portion of seat belt across your thighs, below your abdo- men. To remove slack, pull up a bit on the shoulder seat belt. To loosen the lap portion seat belt if it is too tight, tilt the tongue and pull on the lap seat belt. A snug seat belt re-

seat belt if it is too tight, tilt the tongue and pull on the lap seat belt. A snug seat belt re- duces the risk of sliding under the seat belt in a collision. Ensure that the seat belt running over the body (shoulder segment and lap segment) does not have any twist. Twisted seat belt may not offer effective protec- tion when required. Releasing the seat belt To release the seat belt, push the red button on the lock buckle. The seat belt will automatically retract to its stowed position. If necessary, slide the tongue down the webbing to allow the seat belt to retract fully. Fixed rear centre lap seat belt When buckling, make sure you hear a click confirming that the tab is latched into the seat belt lock. To tighten it, pull the loose end through the buckle until the seat belt is com- fortably adjusted around the hips.  Seat belt height adjustments If the height adjustment is provided in the seat belt, occupant can adjust it to their comfort, as may be applicable. WARNING A Each seat

the seat belt, occupant can adjust it to their comfort, as may be applicable. WARNING A Each seat belt assembly must only be used by one occupant. It is not recommended to put a seat belt around a child, being carried on an occupant's lap. Be careful not to damage or tamper the seat belt webbing or hardware. Inspect the seat belt system periodically, checking for cuts, frays, or loose parts. A frayed or torn seat belt could rip apart in a collision and leave you with no protection. If the seat belt webbing or hardware is damaged, get it replaced immediately at TATA Motors Authorized service centre. Do not insert any items such as coins, clips, etc. into the seat belt buckles, and be careful not to spill liquids into these parts. If foreign materials get into a seat belt buckle, the seat belt will not work properly. Do not wear seat belts over hard, sharp or fragile items in clothing, such as pens, keys, spectacles etc. Do not use any accessories on seat belts or modify in any way the

as pens, keys, spectacles etc. Do not use any accessories on seat belts or modify in any way the SAFETY seat belt system. Devices claiming to improve occupant comfort or reposition the seat belt can reduce the protection provided by the seat belt and increase the chance of serious injury in a collision. Seat Belts with Pre — tensioner (if Equipped) You can use the pre-tensioner seat belts in the same manner as ordinary seat belts . The seat belt pre-tensioner system works in conjunction with the SUPPLEMENTARY RESTRAINTS SYSTEM (SRS-Air Bags). In the event of a collision, as may be necessary, pre-tensioner tightens the seat belt so that it fits the occupant’s body more snugly. When pre-tensioner activates, there could be some noise and release of smoke. This is normal and there are no health hazards or fire risk.  SAFETY WARNING A e The pre-tensioner seat belt assembly mechanisms become hot during activation. Do not touch the pre-tensioner seat belt assemblies for several minutes after

during activation. Do not touch the pre-tensioner seat belt assemblies for several minutes after they have been activated. If the vehicle has been involved in a collision, get it inspected immediately at authorised TATA MOTORS SERVICE Center. Seat Belt Equipped) with Load Limiter (if You can use the load limiter seat belts in the same manner as ordinary seat belts. The seat belt load limiter system works in conjunction with the SUPPLEMEN- TARY RESTRAINTS SYSTEM (SRS-Air Bags). In the event of a collision, as may be nec- essary, load limiter reduces the load on the rib cage region of the occupant. 6 If the vehicle has been involved in a col- lision, get it inspected immediately at Au- thorised TATA MOTORS SERVICE Center. Use of seat belts for pregnant woman WARNING e Pregnant woman must wear a correctly positioned seat belt. It is safer for mother as well as unborn child. e Pregnant woman should wear the lap part of the seat belt across the thighs and as snug across the hips as

woman should wear the lap part of the seat belt across the thighs and as snug across the hips as possible. Keep the seat belt low so that it does not come across the abdomen. That way the strong bones of the hips will take the force if there is a collision. Seat belt Warning Lamp (if equipped) The seat belt warning lamp reminds to fasten the seat belt. of. Pf. For Front Passenger e Ifthe driver does not fasten seat belt, seat belt reminder lamp will blink and a buzzer will sound for pre- defined duration until the driver's seat belt is buckled. e If front passenger seat is occupied by adult and does not fasten seat belt, For Driver seat belt reminder lamp will blink and a buzzer will sound for pre- defined duration until the front passenger seat belt is buckled. e If this system is also provided for other than Front row seats, apllicable above warning will appear until seat elts are buckled. e If front passenger seat is occupied by child, system may detect occupancy  and warn with

buckled. e If front passenger seat is occupied by child, system may detect occupancy  and warn with front passenger seat belt warning. It is not taken to mean child can occupy front passenger seat and use seat belt. Please refer CRS section for recommended seating position. NOTE Using unauthorized aftermarket seat cover may affect function of occupant sensor. TATA motors does not recommended any non- validated seat covers on seats. Child Restraint System (CRS) TATA MOTORS strongly recommends the use of Child Restraint Systems (CRS) for all children up to age of 12 years and to be placed at recommended positions only. Children travelling without recom- mended CRS and seated at other posi- tions may face serious injuries in case of a collision. CRS can be installed in the vehicle using seat belts and/or ISOFIX only (if equipped) or ISOFIX with Top Tether (if equipped). The harness system of CRS holds the child in place, and in a collision, acts to keep the child positioned in the seat

of CRS holds the child in place, and in a collision, acts to keep the child positioned in the seat and reduce the risk if injuries. All children below age of one year must always ride in a rear-facing infant CRS. Keep children in a forward-facing CRS with a harness until they reach the size or weight limit allowed by your CRS man- ufacturer. Once your child outgrows the forward- facing CRS, your child is ready for a booster seat. Selection and installation of CRS: Always select the CRS that complies with latest safety standards (AISO72 / ECE R44). The CRS are classified according to the child's size, height and weight. Select the appropriate CRS for your child. Ensure that the child fits properly in the CRS and it is securely installed in SAFETY the vehicle. For installation, please refer CRS manufacturer’s instruction manual. ISOfix Hooks Fa  SAFETY Recommended CRS position as per the vehicle matrix The suitability of seat position for car- riage of children and recommended category

vehicle matrix The suitability of seat position for car- riage of children and recommended category of CRS is shown in the table below as per the child group. X - Seat Position not suitable for children in this age group. U - Suitable for “universal” category restraints approved for use in this age group. Universal is a category in the AISO72 / ECE R44 norm. WARNING A e If a child is seated in the front seat it may cause serious injury or even death during any collision. Age Group Rear Center 0 Up to 10 kg Up to 9 months x U U x O+ Up to 13 kg Up to 24 months x U U x | 9to18kg | 9months to 48 months x U U x I 15to25kg | Approx. 3 to 7 years x U U x Ul 22 to 36 kg | Approx. 6 to 12 years x U U x  WARNING A e If your vehicle is equipped with a front passenger air bag (PAB) and do not have PAB deactivation switch, do not install a rear-facing CRS in the front passenger seat. If the PAB inflates, a child in a rear facing CRS could be seriously injured or killed. If you install a CRS in

a child in a rear facing CRS could be seriously injured or killed. If you install a CRS in the rear seat, slide the front seat far enough forward so that the child’s feet do not touch the front seatback. This will help avoid injury to the child in the event of a collision. NOTE —_—_—_—_____—_—————— Children could be endangered in a collision if their CRS are not properly secured in the vehicle. Be sure to secure the child in the restraint system according to the manufacturer's instructions. WARNING Do not use an infant carrier or a child safety seat that "hooks“ over a seatback, it will not provide adequate protection in a collision. After a collision, we recommend to get seat belts, seats, ISOFIX and top-tether anchorages (as may be applicable) investigated at TATA MOTORS Authorised service centre. A CRS in a closed vehicle can become very hot. To prevent burns, check the seating surface and buckles before placing your child in CRS. WARNING A e Do not leave unattended children in

and buckles before placing your child in CRS. WARNING A e Do not leave unattended children in your vehicle. e Do not modify CRS in any way. SAFETY NOTE ° Do not install a booster seat or a booster cushion with only the lap strap of the seat belt. e Do not install a booster seat or a booster cushion with a seat belt that is slack or twisted. e Do not put the safety seat belt under your child’s arm or behind its back. e Do not use pillows, books or towels to boost your child’s height. Make sure that your children sit in an upright position. e Do not allow children to stand up or kneel on either the rear or the front seats. An unrestrained child could suffer serious or fatal injuries during a collision. e Do not leave any toys or other objects loose in the CRS or on the seat while the vehicle is in motion. 9  SAFETY Each CRS should be used for one child only. When PAB deactivation switch (if provided) is turned ‘OFF’, make sure ‘PAB’ operational status lamp illuminates with ignition

(if provided) is turned ‘OFF’, make sure ‘PAB’ operational status lamp illuminates with ignition ‘ON’, indicating that the passenger airbag is NOT operational. If the airbag SRS warning indicator in the instrument cluster illuminates continuously, it means that there is malfunction in the system. Remove the CRS from front passenger seat and contact your TATA MOTORS authorised service center. 10  Supplementary Restraint System (SRS) (air bags) (if equipped) The airbag ‘SRS’ system comprises of the following components depending upon the provided safety features in vehicle. e Seat belt Pre-tensioners e Seat belt with load limiters e Driver Airbag e Front Passenger Airbag e Knee Air Bag e Side Airbags e Curtain Air Bag e Airbag ‘SRS’ Control Unit) ¢ Collision Sensors ECU (Electronic e SRS wiring harness e SRS Warning lamp e Front Passenger Deactivation switch The System is active when ignition switch is in the “ON” position or the airbag (PAB) ignition mode is “ON”. Air bags are designed

switch is in the “ON” position or the airbag (PAB) ignition mode is “ON”. Air bags are designed to inflate in collisions when required. In the event of a collision, the collision sensors will detect signals, and if the Airbag ECU judges that the signals represent a severe collision, will trigger the airbags. The inflated air bags provide a cushion to the occupants. The air bag inflates and deflates so quickly that you may not even realize that it has activated. The air bag will neither hinder your view nor make it harder to exit the vehicle. Airbag inflation is virtually instantaneous and occurs with considerable force, accompanied by loud noise and smoke, which is normal. The inflated airbag, together with seat belts, limit the movement of an occupant, thereby reducing the risk of injury. When an airbag inflates, you may see some smoke-like particles. The particles are a normal by-product of the process that generates the non-toxic gas used for airbag inflation. These airborne

of the process that generates the non-toxic gas used for airbag inflation. These airborne particles may irritate the skin, eyes, nose, or SAFETY throat. If you have skin or eye irritation, rinse the area with water. For nose or throat irritation, move to fresh air. Also sometimes the smoke can cause breathing problems , in such cases get fresh air promptly. After inflation, airbag provides a gradual cushioning effect for the occupant thereafter deflates. It is not advisable to drive your vehicle after the airbags have been deployed. If you are involved in another collision, the airbags will not be in place to protect you. 11  SAFETY NOTE Open your windows and doors as soon as possible after collision to reduce prolonged exposure to the smoke and powder released by the inflating air bag. Do not touch the air bag storage area’s internal components immediately after an air bag has inflated. The parts that come into contact with an inflating air bag may be very hot. Always wash exposed

The parts that come into contact with an inflating air bag may be very hot. Always wash exposed skin areas thoroughly with lukewarm water and mild soap. The driver airbag is mounted in the centre of the steering wheel. The front passenger airbag is located inside the dashboard in front of the passenger seat. The vehicle fitted with the airbags have suitable indications on steering wheel and on dash board. The word ‘SRS’ is embossed on the airbag covers. 12 Side airbags are mounted in front row seats for outboard occupants only. Curtain airbags are mounted above the doors along the roof on both sides. Knee airbags are mounted in the dashboard around the knee region of the front row occupants. Passenger airbag (PAB) deactivation switch and PAB operational status indicator (If equipped) If it becomes necessary to fit a CRS on the front passenger seat, the passenger airbag must be de-activated. This switch can be accessed once front passenger side door is opened. On the contrary, when an

This switch can be accessed once front passenger side door is opened. On the contrary, when an adult is seated in the front passenger seat, ensure that PAB deactivation switch is turned to ‘ON’ position. This will ensure that the passenger airbag is operational in the event of a collision. This switch is operated using the ignition / remote key.  PAB deactivation switch WARNING A Even in vehicles with air bags, you and your passengers must always wear the seat belts provided. In order to minimize the risk and severity of injury in the event of a collision. ALWAYS use seat belts and CRS - during every trip and at all times. Even with air bags, you can be seriously injured or killed in a collision if you are improperly seat belted or not wearing your seat belt when the air bag inflates. You and your passengers should never sit or lean unnecessarily close to the air bags. Move your seat as far back as possible from front air bags, while still maintaining control of the vehicle. All

as far back as possible from front air bags, while still maintaining control of the vehicle. All occupants should sit upright with the seatback in an upright position, centred on the seat cushion with their seat belt on, legs SAFETY comfortably extended and their feet on the floor until the vehicle is parked and the engine is turned off. If an occupant is out of position during collision, the rapidly deploying air bag may forcefully contact the occupant causing serious or fatal injuries. Do not allow the front passenger to place their feet or legs on the dashboard. Do not allow the passenger to ride in the front seat when the front passenger air bag OFF indicator is illuminated. 13  SAFETY Not recommended seating position  WARNING A Never place your arm over the airbag as a deploying airbag can result in serious arm fractures or other injuries. Do not allow the passengers to lean their heads or bodies onto doors or place objects between the doors and passengers when they are seated on

or bodies onto doors or place objects between the doors and passengers when they are seated on _ seats equipped with side and/or curtain air bags. Do not place or stick any item/s in the vehicle, except at designated locations (Such as _ utility bins, cup/bottle holders, Boot space etc). Loose items may act as a projectile during a collision and cause severe to fatal injuries. Please be aware that any unsecured item in your vehicle, such as your pet, unsecured CRS or a laptop, can become a potential hazard in the event of a collision or sudden stop, causing injuries to occupants in the vehicle. Coat hooks if provided, must be used only for that purpose. Never hang heavy items on to those hooks. This could affect deployment of the air bags, and may lead to severe to fatal injuries. ALWAYS contact your TATA MOTORS authorised __ service centre if the vehicle is damaged, even if airbag has not inflated. ALWAYS contact your TATA MOTORS authorised __ service centre if any part of an airbag

not inflated. ALWAYS contact your TATA MOTORS authorised __ service centre if any part of an airbag module cover shows sign of cracking or damage. SAFETY If your SRS malfunctions, the air bag may not inflate properly during a colli- sion thereby increasing risk of serious in- jury or death. If any of the following con- ditions occur, your SRS is malfunction- ing: WARNING A The SRS warning lamp does not turn ‘ON’ when the ignition switch is placed in the ‘ON’ position for few seconds. The SRS warning lamp stays ‘ON’ after illuminating The SRS warning lamp comes ‘ON’/stays ‘ON’ while the vehicle is in motion. The SRS warning lamp _ blinks when the engine is running. 15  SAFETY We recommend the customer to imme- diately visit TATA MOTORS authorised service centre and get the SRS system inspected if any of the above conditions occur. WARNING A 16 Never make any modifications to your vehicle. The modifications carried out, but not limited to the vehicle frame, bumpers, front fenders, ride

The modifications carried out, but not limited to the vehicle frame, bumpers, front fenders, ride height, suspension, seat belts, interior trims, steering wheel (especially holders), are not acceptable. This will affect the intended performance of SRS system. Fitment of bull bars, seat covers on seats with airbags etc, is strictly prohibited, unless authorised by TATA MOTORS. This will affect the intended performance of SRS system. If you need to make any modifications to accommodate any disability you may have, please contact your Authorized TATA MOTORS Dealer _ for necessary guidance. Do not tamper with SRS in any way. This will lead to unexpected performance of system and may cause serious injury or death.  AIRBAGS Deployment Condi- tions (If equipped) When front airbags (if equipped) should not deploy? Minor frontal collision: Seat belt of- fers adequate occupant protection in low severity collisions. The airbags are triggered only when there is a collision severe enough to

low severity collisions. The airbags are triggered only when there is a collision severe enough to trigger the airbags. De- ployment of frontal airbags is not benefi- cial in low severity collisions. Side collision: During a side collision, occupants tend to move sideways. Therefore, deploying frontal airbags in such situations will not benefit the occu- pants. Side airbags, side curtain airbags (if equipped) are specifically designed to reduce the injuries that can occur in side collision. Rear collision: During a rear collision, occupants tend to move (rearwards) away from frontal airbags. Therefore, de- ploying frontal airbags in such situations will not benefit the occupant protection. Head restraints and seat belts provide occupant protection during a rear colli- sion. Rollovers collision: During a rollover collision occupants may float inside the passenger compartment, if unbelted. This will increase the risk of injuries. Wearing seat belts provide highly effec- tive occupant

This will increase the risk of injuries. Wearing seat belts provide highly effec- tive occupant protection during rollover collision. If your vehicle is equipped with a rollover sensor, both, seat belt and side curtain airbag can provide highly ef- fective occupant protection during rollo- ver collision. Front airbags, however, are not designed to deploy in a rollover as frontal airbags cannot offer any protec- tion in rollover collision. When front airbags (if equipped) de- ploy with minor or no visible vehicle damage? The airbags are triggered only when there is a collision severe enough to trig- ger the airbags. A severe collision to the vehicle underbody or suspension may cause airbags deployment. Examples in- clude rough road driving, running into a curb or other low fixed object that SAFETY causes a sudden vehicle deceleration. Since the collision is underneath the ve- hicle, damage may not be readily visible. When front airbags (if equipped) may not deploy, even with exterior

may not be readily visible. When front airbags (if equipped) may not deploy, even with exterior visible vehicle damage? The airbags are triggered only when there is a collision severe enough to trig- ger the airbags. The amount of visible ve- hicle damage is not always the correct indicator for airbag deployment. Some collisions can result in visible damage but no airbag deployment because the airbags would not have been needed or would not have provided protection even if they had deployed. 17  SAFETY When a side airbag (if equipped) de- ploys with minor or no visible vehi- cle damage? The airbags are triggered only when there is a collision severe enough to trig- ger the airbags. If the airbag system senses sudden deceleration, a strong collision to the side of the vehicle’s frame can cause a side airbag to deploy. In such cases, there may be little When a side airbag (if equipped) may not deploy, even with exterior visible vehicle damage? It is possible that the side airbag does

may not deploy, even with exterior visible vehicle damage? It is possible that the side airbag does not deploy during a collision that results in visible severe damage. This can occur when the point of collision is toward the far front or far rear of the vehicle or when the vehicle’s crushable body parts ab- sorbed most of the collision energy. In ei- ther case, the side airbag would not have been needed nor provided protec- tion even if it had deployed. 18 Anti-lock braking system (ABS) - (if equipped) ABS regulates brake pressure in such a way that the wheels do not lock when you brake. This allows you to continue steering the vehicle when braking. When ABS is active, the driver will feel the brake pedal pulsating, which is normal. WARNING The stopping distance required for vehicles with ABS may be slightly more than conventional brake sys- tem but ABS will still offer the ad- vantage of helping you maintain di- rectional control. However, remember that ABS will not compensate for

of helping you maintain di- rectional control. However, remember that ABS will not compensate for bad road or weather conditions or poor driver judgment. Drive within safety margins, taking into consideration prevailing weather and traffic conditions. If the ABS warning lamp is ON while driving then there is a malfunction in the ABS system (the standard brak- ing system will however function) and the vehicle should be driven cau- tiously to the nearest TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre. Electronic brake force distribution (EBD) - (if equipped) EBD monitors and controls the brake pressure on the wheels to improve driv- ing stability while braking.  1. Unlock 2. Approach Light /follow me/trunk lid 3. Lock 4. Key blade in / out button 1. Unlocking all doors To unlock all doors, press unlock push- button (1) once. Unlocking will be con- firmed by single flash of turn indicators. 2. Approach light / Follow me Press approach light button (2) once, low beam, park and roof lamp will turn

light / Follow me Press approach light button (2) once, low beam, park and roof lamp will turn ‘ON’ for 60 seconds (default setting). This fea- ture helps to find and reach the parked vehicle or to reach home in dark/ cloudy condition after parking. Red LED will be flashed on the remote. To switch ‘OFF’ the approach lights, press and release the same button or it automatically turns ‘OFF’ after 60 seconds. Trunk lid opening (if equipped) Electric trunk lid opening can be done through long press (4 sec) approach light button on remote key. 3. Locking all doors To lock all doors, press lock push-button (3) once. Locking will be confirmed by two flashes of turn indicators. If lock button is pressed on the remote key with the driver door open, locking-un- locking takes place with audible warning sound. If any other door is open, the ve- hicle gets locked but indicators do not flash. OPENING AND CLOSING 4. Folding key blade in / out Press button (4) to flip out the key blade. For folding,

AND CLOSING 4. Folding key blade in / out Press button (4) to flip out the key blade. For folding, press the button (4) and fold the key blade inside. Key Blade should not be folded with- out pressing the button. Also, it should not be forced in any direction apart from folding direction to avoid damage to Flip Mechanism.  OPENING AND CLOSING Manual operation of central door lock- ing / unlocking All doors can be locked / unlocked oper- ating driver door using either key blade from outside or knob from inside. E-Key Features Vehicle search In vehicle locked condition if lock button on remote key is pressed the turn indica- tors of vehicle flashes 4 times. Automatic activation of immobilizer If key is removed from ignition, the en- gine will be immobilized automatically even if you forget to lock the vehicle. Auto locking / unlocking of doors / auto relock Vehicle doors get automatically locked when all doors are closed and the vehi- cle speed crosses 10 kmph. When ignition key is

locked when all doors are closed and the vehi- cle speed crosses 10 kmph. When ignition key is taken out all the doors get automatically unlocked. 20 Also, when unlocked with remote key and if no door is opened within 30 sec- onds, vehicle doors get automatically locked. Anti-grab / anti-scan coding The remote control set of this security system is protected against the use of devices called ‘scanners’ and ‘grabbers’ which can record and reproduce some types of remote codes. Sleep Mode If remote key is not used for more than a week then its functionalities will turn to sleep mode. In such a case, to activate the remote key functionalities, open the door mechanically with the key blade. NOTI In case any button of the key is acci- dentally pressed for more than 25 seconds, the remote stops function- ing till the time the button is pressed. The LED on the Remote also stops glowing. The function of the remote gets reinstated immediately when the user stops pressing the push but- ton of

of the remote gets reinstated immediately when the user stops pressing the push but- ton of remote. Important Don’t operate Unlock push-button of re- mote while in the vicinity of your vehicle, as it could lead to an unintentional un- locking your vehicle. Don’t use discharged batteries in re- mote, as it could damage the remote. For battery replacement procedure refer maintenance section. Don’t remove the battery connection of the vehicle while the vehicle has been locked by remote.  Locking without a key from inside Doors Door locking / unlocking with key Driver door has separate locking facility. All doors can be locked or unlocked from outside using the key. Be 1 = = All the doors can also be locked from in- side by pressing knob (1) on driver door and independently on other doors re- spectively. Insert the key and turn it clockwise to lock and counter clockwise to open the door. OPENING AND CLOSING Opening the doors from inside All doors can be opened from inside. To open, pull

AND CLOSING Opening the doors from inside All doors can be opened from inside. To open, pull the door opening knob (1) and then lever (2). 21  OPENING AND CLOSING Windows Glasses are wound up by pulling the NOTE Power windows (if equipped) Power windows can be operated for 3 minutes in ‘IGN OFF’ position and when key is taken out. Individual switches Individual window winding switches have been provided on the front passen- ger and rear doors. 1. Front Window Winding Switch (Right) 2. Rear Window Winding Switch (Right) 3. Front Window Winding Switch (Left) 4. Rear Window Winding Switch (Left) 5. Inhibit Switch Glasses on all four windows of your vehi- cle can be operated by switches pro- vided on the main control panel located on the driver’s arm rest. They work only when the key is in the ‘IGN ON’ position. 22 switch and are lowered by pressing. WARNING : While raising the glass, take care to avoid fingers/hands getting trapped between glass and the frame.  Inhibit switch Inhibit OFF

to avoid fingers/hands getting trapped between glass and the frame.  Inhibit switch Inhibit OFF (Released position) When switch is re- leased, the individ- Nowe ual switches pro- vided on rear pas- NY senger door can be operated. It can also be operated from the switches on driver's arm rest. Inhibit ON (Pressed position) When this switch is pressed the individ- ual switches pro- vided on rear pas- \ senger doors can- not be operated. It can only be operated by using the win- dow switches on driver's arm rest. WARNING VAN e If children operate the windows they could be get trapped, partic- ularly if they are left unsuper- vised. There is a risk of injury. e Activate the window inhibit fea- ture when children are travelling. When leaving the vehicle, always take the key with you and lock the vehicle. Never leave children un- supervised in the vehicle. OPENING AND CLOSING Manual Window Winding (if equipped) Use window winder handle for lowering or raising up window glasses manually

Winding (if equipped) Use window winder handle for lowering or raising up window glasses manually where power windows are not provided. 23  OPENING AND CLOSING Bonnet Opening WARNING A Always switch off the windshield wip- ers and the ignition before opening the bonnet. WARNING A Certain components in the engine compartment, such as the engine, ra- diator and parts of the exhaust sys- tem, can become very hot. Working in the engine compartment poses a risk of injury. = Ensure that the vehicle is in neutral gear with the parking brake applied. N Pull the bonnet release lever. The bonnet will pop up slightly. ——— 3. Raise the bonnet slightly and with 4. Lift the bonnet up. Pull the bonnet your finger slide the secondary lock stay rod from its clip and insert the lever located under the bonnet cen- free end into the slot. tre to the left side. WARNING NOTE e The stay rod can be hot enough to Make sure that the wiper arms are burn your finger right after driv- not raised before you lift

to Make sure that the wiper arms are burn your finger right after driv- not raised before you lift up the bon- ing. Touch the rod after it be- net to avoid damaging the wiper comes cool enough. arms and the bonnet. e Insert the stay rod into the hole securely. If the rod drops off, your body may be caught below the bonnet.  Closing 1. Toclose the bonnet, hold the bonnet by one hand, disengage the stay rod and clamp it back properly. 2. Lower the bonnet close to the bumper, and then let it drop down. WARNING Ensure that the bonnet is locked properly before driving or it can fly up unexpectedly during driving. Trunk lid Option | (If provided) right hand side of the driver seat. Lift the lever to unlock trunk lid. Lift the trunk lid. Option Il It can also be opened by using door key, The lock is located on the trunk lid. For closing, pull the trunk lid down and close it with a slight swing. OPENING AND CLOSING Trunk lid Opening Lever is located onthe — Option III (If provided) To open

OPENING AND CLOSING Trunk lid Opening Lever is located onthe — Option III (If provided) To open the trunk lid, press the switch lo- cated on fascia switch. This option will work only in ignition ON condition. 25  OPENING AND CLOSING Option IV (If provided) Fuel lid opening Lever is located on the right hand side of the driver seat. Lift the lever to unlock fuel flap. Open the fuel cap by turning it in counter clockwise di- rection for fuel filling. trunk lid opening can be done through long press (4 sec) approach light button on remote key. Fuel lid For closing, lock the fuel cap and gently push the fuel flap till it gets locked. WARNING e Fuel vapour is extremely hazard- ous. Always switch ‘OFF’ the en- gine before refueling and never refill near sparks or open flames. e Do not use cell phone while refu- eling. e Do not continue adding fuel after the automatic shut ‘OFF’ function operates. If it is equipped on the fuel station. Overfilling the fuel tank could damage the fuel sys-

If it is equipped on the fuel station. Overfilling the fuel tank could damage the fuel sys- tem. NOTE Remove the fuel filler cap slowly, and wait for any hissing to stop. The fuel may be under pressure and may spray out. If fuel cap needs replacement, ensure that it is replaced by a genuine cap at TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre only.  Cockpit (MT) The above shown image is for reference purpose only. DASHBOARD AND FEATURES 1 A.C. Air vent (Side) 2 | Air Bag (PAB) - if fitted 3 | AC. Air vent (Middle) 4 | Hazard Warning Switch 5 | Combi-Switch 6 | Steering Wheel 7 | Instrument Cluster 8 | Horn pad / Air Bag (DAB) - if fitted 9 | Steering Wheel Switches - if fitted 10 | Accelerator Pedal 11 | Brake Pedal 12 | Clutch Pedal 13 | Foot Rest 14 | Power Socket 15 | Cup Holder 16 | Parking Brake Lever 17 | Gear Shift Lever 18 | USB/AUX Port - if fitted 19 | HVAC /FATC Control panel(If fitted) 20 | Fascia Switches 21 | Infotainment System - if fitted 22 | Glove Box 23 | Driver Side Pocket

20 | Fascia Switches 21 | Infotainment System - if fitted 22 | Glove Box 23 | Driver Side Pocket 27  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Cockpit (AMT) The above shown image is for reference purpose only. 28 1 A.C. Air vent (Side) 2 | Air Bag (PAB) - if fitted 3 | A.C. Air vent (Middle) 4 | Hazard Warning Switch 5 | Combi-Switch 6 | Steering Wheel 7 | Instrument Cluster 8 | Horn pad / Air Bag (DAB) - if fitted 9 | Steering Wheel Switches - if fitted 10 | Accelerator Pedal 11 | Brake Pedals 12 | Gear Shift Lever 13 | Power Socket 14 | Foot Rest 15 | Cup Holder 16 | Parking Brake Lever 17 | USB/AUX Port - if fitted 18 | HVAC /FATC Control panel(if fitted) 19 | Fascia Switches 20 | Infotainment System - if fitted 21 | Glove Box 22 | Driver Side Pocket  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Instrument Cluster — Version 1 Tachometer Speedometer Set knob Mode knob Driver Information Display NOTE: All indicators shown may not be applicable to your vehicle. 29  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Instrument Cluster — Version 2

may not be applicable to your vehicle. 29  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Instrument Cluster — Version 2 Tachometer Driver Information Display Speedometer Set knob Mode knob Fuel Gauge NOTE: All indicators shown may not be applicable to your vehicle. 30  Speedometer Version 1 Version 2 Speedometer indicates the vehicle speed in km/h. At every key IN and ignition ON, the Instrument Cluster needles and gauges moves to MAX. and returns to ‘0' position. This is a welcome strat- egy and a self-check feature. DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Tachometer Tachometer indicates engine speed in revolutions per min (rpm). WARNING e When engine is accelerated be- yond safe ‘rpm’, the tachometer pointer turns RED. In such case, re- duce the engine RPM immediately. 31  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES e Never drive the vehicle with engine in high ‘rpm’. This may cause se- vere engine damage. Fuel Gauge When the ignition switch is in “ON” posi- tion, fuel gauge gives an approximate in- dication of the amount of fuel in the fuel

in “ON” posi- tion, fuel gauge gives an approximate in- dication of the amount of fuel in the fuel tank. “F” stands for full and “E” stands for empty. When fuel in the tank is near to empty position, low fuel warning telltale turns ‘ON’. Refill the tank as soon as possible. If fuel is not filled even after Low fuel warning telltale ‘ON’, first bar in fuel gauge will start blinking to indicate more severe low fuel warning. 32 e Check the fuel level when the vehi- cle is on level road. e On inclines, curves, during braking and sudden acceleration due to the movement of fuel in the tank, the fuel level display may fluctuate or the low fuel warning lamp may illuminate earlier than usual. WARNING A e Running the fuel tank too low or empty can cause engine to stall and could endanger User and pas- sengers. User must stop and ob- tain additional fuel as soon as pos- sible after low fuel warning telltale turns ON. e Low fuel warning symbol will blink if there is any fault in the system. Take

telltale turns ON. e Low fuel warning symbol will blink if there is any fault in the system. Take your vehicle to the nearest TATA MOTORS Authorised service station if the symbol starts blink- ing. Do not continue adding fuel after the automatic shut off function is operated if it is equipped on the fuel pump. The sensor in the fuel tank may misjudge the amount of fuel remaining.  Temperature Gauge (if equipped) ~~ ores When the ignition switch is in the “ON” position, this gauge indicates the engine coolant temperature. The indicator should stay within the normal, accepta- ble temperature range between “H” and “C”. If the indicator approaches “H”, overheating is indicated by red LED bar. If the coolant temperature reading is very high, the warning telltale flashes with an audible buzzer. In this case, stop the vehicle, switch ‘OFF’ the engine and cool it down for some time. Contact a nearest TATA MOTORS Authorised Ser- vice Centre immediately for rectification. High Coolant

a nearest TATA MOTORS Authorised Ser- vice Centre immediately for rectification. High Coolant temperature warning may come when cooling fans in radiator sections are malfunctioning. WARNING VAN e High Coolant temp warning Telltale indicates overheating that may damage the engine. Continuing to drive the vehicle when engine over- heating is indicated can result in severe engine damage or fire. e Never remove the radiator pres- sure cap from the radiator when the engine is hot. DASHBOARD AND FEATURES 33  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Driver Information Odometer System Image Description Indicates total distance travelled by a vehicle. The Odometer reading does not return to “0” when it reaches maximum value, the display will freeze to maximum value and resettable Note: You can change the Distance unit as Km using SET and MODE buttons. Trip meterA&B The trip meter is used to measure the distance travelled on short trips or between fuel stops. It can be reset to “0” Trip meter reading becomes

travelled on short trips or between fuel stops. It can be reset to “0” Trip meter reading becomes “0.0” after it crosses 9999.9 km. Note: You can reset Trip meter using SET button by long press Clock When the ignition switch is in the “ON” position, it shows the time. 34  Driver Information Service reminder System Image DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Description ndicates the number of days/kilometers in which service is due. If service is overdue, it will display “O” km or “0” days and spanner symbol will blink. Never reset the display between service intervals otherwise, this may result in to incorrect readings. nformation is retained in the service interval display also after the vehicle battery is disconnected. NOTE: This option is for indicative purpose only. Keep track of your odometer reading and follow the maintenance schedule. Gear Recommendation Up or Down arrow shall be displayed on DIS whenever Gear should be put Up or Down. This feature is applicable to both AMT and Manual

on DIS whenever Gear should be put Up or Down. This feature is applicable to both AMT and Manual transmission variant. No arrow shall be displayed when the selected Gear is as per the Vehicle dynamics. Drive Mode (AMT) “M” indicates Manual Drive mode. “Auto” indicated Automatic Drive mode. 35  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Driver Information Door Ajar (as applicable) System Image Description All four door and trunk lid are indicated independently when respective door or trunk lid is open. Note: If any other door is open roof lamp will be ‘ON’ provided that roof lamp switch is in || position. This warning will be indicated when driver door is open. Note: If any other door is open roof lamp will be ‘ON’ provided that roof lamp switch is in position. | Outside Ambient Temperature Displays outside ambient temperature in units °C. Current Gear Indica- tion 2) N - Neutral - Reverse Current gear engaged by the transmission shall be displayed on DIS. This feature is applicable to both AMT and Manual

by the transmission shall be displayed on DIS. This feature is applicable to both AMT and Manual transmission vari- ant. In case of Manual transmission, the gear display is as per the User se- lection. IN case of AMT, the display is as per the Automatic selected gear. Note: If is displayed, it means ‘Fault’ condition. In such case, take vehicle to authorized TATA MOTORS service station. 36  1. Instantaneous fuel economy (IFE) G INSTFE 3G P| on IFE indicates fuel economy of current drive when Ignition is turned ‘ON’. Keep IFE bar graph 15 km/I to achieve better fuel economy. NOTE IFE will vary frequently as per driving pattern. IFE display does not show Fuel Economy of last drive. The display does not show actual value unless vehicle is moving. At Every Ignition ON Fuel gauge will be displayed in place of “In- stantaneous Fuel consumption” Bar Graph irrespective of user se- lection screen. You can Toggle between “Fuel Gauge” and “Instantaneous Fuel consumption” Bar Graph using SET and

You can Toggle between “Fuel Gauge” and “Instantaneous Fuel consumption” Bar Graph using SET and MODE Button. Selection to IFE screen will NOT be allowed if Fuel is below 1/4» tank level. During Vehicle Running if LCD Screen is in “Instantaneous Fuel consumption” Bar Graph mode & if fuel gauge reduces to 1/4" tank level then LCD Screen will auto- matically goes to Fuel Mode. The maximum value of IFE is 30 km/I. No more than 30 shall be in- dicated on the display even if the actual IFE is higher than 30 km/I. DASHBOARD AND FEATURES 2. Average fuel economy (AFE) for Trip and Trip B Average Fuel Economy A/B will reset to ‘O’ whenever Trip meter A/B is reset. Average Fuel Economy will be displayed as ‘~.--‘for initial 0.5 km of respective trip. Once 0.5 km distance is covered, Average Fuel Economy will be displayed. Even after 0.5 km distance covered for particular trip, if Average Fuel Economy is displayed as ‘--.--‘, then take your vehi- cle to TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre. 37

is displayed as ‘--.--‘, then take your vehi- cle to TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre. 37  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES e AFE value is estimate of fuel economy. It may vary significantly based upon driving conditions, driving habits and condition of ve- hicle. e Average Fuel Consumption will get Reset to ‘O’ when Battery is removed and refitted. 3. Distance to empty (DTE) It indicates approximate distance in ‘km’ that your vehicle can travel with availa- ble fuel in tank with current average fuel consumption rate and it is displayed in DTE values may vary significantly based on driving conditions, driving habits, and condition of the vehicle. It is an estimate value of the available driving distance. NOTE e If DTE is displayed as ‘—‘, then take your vehicle to TATA MO- TORS Authorized Service Centre. e The DTE will update with new value when fuel is added more than 4 Litres at a time. e If low fuel waring light turns ‘ON’, fill the fuel tank immediately re- gardless the value of dis-

If low fuel waring light turns ‘ON’, fill the fuel tank immediately re- gardless the value of dis- played DTE. e If vehicle is not on level ground and negative of battery has been disturbed, the DTE function may not operate correctly. e If low fuel warning light turns ‘ON’, fill the fuel tank immediately re- gardless the value of displayed DTE. e Fill the fuel immediately in case of DTE shows rEFUEL.  Driver Information Settings (Version 1) ODO, OAT & IFE TRIPB & AVGB TRIPA&AVGA TRIPA & AVGA 1 i INST FE 30 PRESS SET FOR LONG TIME TO RESET TRIP METER & AVG ODO, OAT & FG DASHBOARD AND FEATURES TRIPB & AVGB ODO & DTE PRESS SET FOR LONG TIME TO RESET TRIP METER & AVG PN aA 2 2 000 93456 km INSTFE 30 ODO & OAT ODO & CLOCK 39  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Driver Information Settings (Version 2) PRESS MODE TRIPA& AVGA TRIP B & AVG B ODO & DTE F} i * E UT Fs PRESS ‘SET’ FOR LONG TIME PRESS ‘SET’ FOR LONG TIME TO RESET TRIP METER & AVG TO RESET TRIP METER & AVG 40  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Digital

LONG TIME TO RESET TRIP METER & AVG TO RESET TRIP METER & AVG 40  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Digital Clock Setting PRESS ‘SET’ FOR LONG TIME | No interaction with the SET MODE Button After 10 second land to home screen | Both HH MM First MM Second AM/PM digit blinking digit blinking digit blinking blinking PRESS SET ide iietam to change to change selected . selected PRESS ‘SET’ PRESS ‘SET’ FOR PRESS ‘SET’ FOR FOR LONG TIME LONG TIME (MM LONG TIME (MM (HH gets Set) First digit gets Set) Second digit gets Set) 41  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Instrument Cluster Illumination NOTE e At Every Ignition ON Fuel gauge will be displayed in place of “In- stantaneous Fuel consumption” Bar Graph irrespective of user se- lection screen. e User can Toggle between “Fuel Gauge” and “Instantaneous Fuel consumption” Bar Graph using For Instrument Cluster illumination level SET and MODE Button. settings, it is necessary to turn the Park fection to IFE en will Lamp ‘ON’ and then Press the ‘SET’ knob ° Nop be

necessary to turn the Park fection to IFE en will Lamp ‘ON’ and then Press the ‘SET’ knob ° Nop be sllowed if Fuel is below on Instrument Cluster. 1/4th tank level. Press ‘SET’ knob to change the illumina- tion intensity level in 5 steps. A delayed the ‘SET’ knob f lected in- press on ine nod tora selected in consumption” Bar Graph mode & tensity will confirm it if fuel gauge reduces to 1/4" tank level then LCD Screen will auto- matically goes to Fuel Mode. The Clock and Instrument Cluster IIlu- mination settings should be done only when the vehicle is in stationary condition for safety purpose. e During Vehicle Running if LCD Screen is in “Instantaneous Fuel 42  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Instrument Cluster — Digital Cluster (Version 3) Tachometer Driver Information Display Temperature Gauge @ | CRMIRGIVRTHOAGIOA D SPORT CITY ECO Set Knob Speedometer Mode Knob Fuel Gauge NOTE: All indicators shown may not be applicable to your vehicle. 43  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Instrument Cluster —

shown may not be applicable to your vehicle. 43  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Instrument Cluster — Digital Cluster (Version 4) Tachometer Driver Information Display Temperature Gauge TET: Re a (IZ © 2 (LNA nm 888888. oe) s)] so Set Knob Speedometer Mode Knob _ Fuel Gauge NOTE: All indicators shown may not be applicable to your vehicle. 44  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Speedometer Tachometer WARNING A eg700 AM e When engine is accelerated be- yond safe ‘rpm’, the tachometer pointer turns RED. In such case, reduce the engine RPM immedi- ately. e Never drive the vehicle with en- gine in high ‘rpm’. This may cause severe engine damage. city ay | + ol nn "gone nT Speedometer indicates the vehicle speed in km/h. NOTE e At every key IN and ignition ON, the Instrument Cluster gauges moves to MAX. and returns to '0' position. Tachometer indicates engine speed in revolutions per min (rpm). 45  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Fuel Gauge When the ignition switch is in “ON” posi- tion, fuel gauge gives an approximate

FEATURES Fuel Gauge When the ignition switch is in “ON” posi- tion, fuel gauge gives an approximate in- dication of the amount of fuel in the fuel tank. “F” stands for full and “E” stands for empty. When fuel in the tank is near to empty position, low fuel warning telltale turns ‘ON’. Refill the tank as soon as possible. If fuel is not filled even after Low fuel warning telltale ‘ON’, first bar in fuel 46 gauge will start blinking to indicate more severe low fuel warning. Check the fuel level when the vehicle is on level road. On inclines, curves, during braking and sudden acceleration due to the movement of fuel in the tank, the fuel level display may fluctuate or the low fuel warning lamp may illuminate earlier than usual. WARNING Low fuel warning symbol will blink if there is any fault in the system. Take your vehicle to the nearest TATA MO- TORS Authorised service station if the symbol starts blinking. Temperature Gauge (if equipped) When the ignition switch is in the “ON”

the symbol starts blinking. Temperature Gauge (if equipped) When the ignition switch is in the “ON” position, this gauge indicates the engine coolant temperature. The indicator should stay within the normal, accepta- ble temperature range between “H” and “Cc”. If the indicator approaches “H”, overheating is indicated by red LED bar. If the coolant temperature reading is very high, the warning tell-tale flashes with an audible buzzer. In this case, stop the vehicle, switch ‘OFF’ the engine and cool it down for some time. Contact a nearest TATA MOTORS Authorised Ser- vice Centre immediately for rectification.  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES WARNING A The red LED bar and high coolant temperature warning tell-tale Indi- cates overheating that may dam- age the engine. Continuing to drive the vehicle when engine overheat- ing is indicated can result in severe engine damage or fire. 47  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Driver Information System Image Description Indicates total distance travelled by a

AND FEATURES Driver Information System Image Description Indicates total distance travelled by a vehicle. The Odometer reading does not return to “0” when it reaches maxi- mum value, the display will freeze to maximum value. Odometer The trip meter is used to measure the distance travelled on short trips or between fuel stops. It can be reset to “0” Trip meter reading becomes “0.0” after it crosses 9999.9 km. Trip meterA&B Indicates the number of days/kilometers in which service is due. If service is overdue, it will display “O” km or “0” days and spanner symbol will blink. Never reset the display between service intervals otherwise, this may result in to incorrect readings. Information is retained in the service interval display also after the vehicle battery is disconnected. NOTE: This option is for indicative purpose only. Keep track of your odometer reading and follow the maintenance schedule. Service reminder (Package Protected) 48  Driver Information Gear Recommendation System

schedule. Service reminder (Package Protected) 48  Driver Information Gear Recommendation System Image Lf v M DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Description Up or Down arrow shall be displayed on DIS whenever Gear should be put Up or Down. This feature is applicable to both AMT and Manual transmission variant. No arrow shall be displayed when the selected Gear is as per the Vehicle dynamics. Outside Ambient fa Displays outside ambient temperature in °C. T t “yt emperature 14 ks All four door and trunk lid are indicated independently when re- 4| IM spective door or trunk lid is open. 4 \ NOTE: If any other door is open roof lamp will be ‘ON’ provided Door Ajar that roof lamp switch is in || position. (as applicable) I IC Cm This warning will be indicated when driver door is open. NOTE: If any other door is open roof lamp will be ‘ON’ provided that roof lamp switch is in 5] position. 49  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Description When the ignition switch is in the “ON” position, it shows the time. Drive

AND FEATURES Description When the ignition switch is in the “ON” position, it shows the time. Drive Mode (AMT) “M” indicates Manual Drive mode. “A” indicated Automatic Drive mode. - Reverse Current Gear Indication INI - Neutral Current gear engaged by the transmission shall be displayed on DIS. This feature is applicable to both AMT and Manual transmission variant. In case of Manual transmission, the gear display is as per the User selection. IN case of AMT, the display is as per the Auto- matic selected gear. Note: /f IF is displayed, it means ‘Fault’ condition. In such case, take vehicle to authorized TATA MOTORS service station. 50  1. Instantaneous fuel economy (IFE) NG — TI INST FE 39, Monitor IFE bar graph to achieve better fuel economy. IFE will vary frequently as per driving pattern. IFE display does not show Fuel Economy of last drive. It indicates fuel economy of current Drive when Ignition is turned ‘ON’. The display does not show actual value unless vehicle is moving. The

when Ignition is turned ‘ON’. The display does not show actual value unless vehicle is moving. The indication on the display may be de- layed if fuel consumption is affected by driving pattern. 2. Average fuel economy (AFE) Average Fuel Economy A/B will reset to ‘O’ whenever Trip meter A/B is reset. Average Fuel Economy will be displayed as ‘~.-‘ for initial 0.5 km of respective trip. Once 0.5 km distance is covered, Average Fuel Economy will be displayed. Even after 0.5 km distance covered for particular trip, if Average Fuel Economy is displayed as ‘-.--‘, then take your vehi- cle to TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre. DASHBOARD AND FEATURES AFE value is estimate of fuel econ- omy. It may vary significantly based upon driving conditions, driving hab- its and condition of vehicle. Average Fuel Consumption will get Reset to ‘0’ when Battery is removed and refitted.  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES 3. Distance to empty (DTE) It indicates approximate distance in ‘km’ that your vehicle can

FEATURES 3. Distance to empty (DTE) It indicates approximate distance in ‘km’ that your vehicle can travel with availa- ble fuel in tank. DTE values may vary significantly based on driving conditions, driving habits, and condition of the vehicle. It is an estimate value of the available driving distance. NOTE If DTE is displayed as ‘—‘, then take your vehicle to TATA MO-TORS Au- thorized Service Centre. The DTE will update with new value when fuel is added more than 4 Litres at a time. If low fuel warning light turns ‘ON’, fill the fuel tank immediately regardless the value of displayed DTE.  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Driver Information Settings MBSP to Display OD & OTE my cry 1 — MBSP to —— MBSP to — | Display OAT | Display TRIP A ] Li keh . VM imim _ Lyi km/h MBSP to Display TRP SB Note : OAT screen will not be displayed for Non-FATC and NON-AMT variants MBSP- Mode Button Short Press 53  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Driver Information Settings for Illumination and Clock setting Press S0SP

DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Driver Information Settings for Illumination and Clock setting Press S0SP and if Vehicle Speed #0 & Park Lamp is ort Press Set Button Long time to Set minute First Digit Speed =0& Park Lamp is Press MBSP to @hter Press Set Button Long time to Set Minaste First Digit CLOCK SETTING ILLUMINATION] caus rl oe SAVE AND EXIT a |MODE MBSP- Mode Button Short Press; SBLP- Set Button Long Press; SBSP- Set Button Short Press 54  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Instrument Cluster Illumination This is a welcome strategy and a self- check feature. For Instrument Cluster illumination level settings, it is necessary to turn the Park Lamp ‘ON’ and then Press the ‘SET’ knob on Instrument Cluster. Press ‘SET’ knob to change the illumina- tion intensity level in 5 steps. A delayed press on the ‘SET’ knob for a selected in- tensity will confirm it. WARNING A The Clock and Instrument Cluster Illumination settings should be done only when the vehicle is in stationary condition for safety pur-

settings should be done only when the vehicle is in stationary condition for safety pur- pose. 55  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Warning Lamps Malfunction Indica- tion Lamp (MIL) Color Amber Indicator Remarks 1. Illuminates when ignition is switched ‘ON’. Once engine is started, it turns ‘OFF’. 2. It remains ‘ON’ for any engine related fault that may increase emission levels of the vehicle beyond the regulatory norms. Contact a TATA MOTORS Authorised Service Centre for rectifica- tion. Check Engine Amber 1. Illuminates when ignition is switched ‘ON’. Once engine is started, it turns ‘OFF’. 2. Illuminates continuously if a fault arises in Engine Management System. Contact a TATA MOTORS Authorised Service Centre. Immobilizer Red 1. Illuminates when the system disables engine start if the original key is not used. 2. Lamp blinks: Vehicle is in immobilized condition when key is not inserted. 3. Lamp ON: Problem with key/system. Contact a TATA MOTORS Authorised Service Centre. Water in fuel

3. Lamp ON: Problem with key/system. Contact a TATA MOTORS Authorised Service Centre. Water in fuel (Diesel) Amber 1. Illuminates when ignition is switched ‘ON’. Once engine is started, it turns ‘OFF’. 2. Illuminates continuously if excess water is accumulated in the fuel filter. Contact a TATA MOTORS Authorised Service Centre to drain the water immediately to avoid serious damage to the fuel injection system. 56  Warning Lamps Glow Plug (Diesel) Color Amber Indicator DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Remarks lluminates momentarily when ignition is switched ‘ON’ to indicate that the glow plugs are active. It will continuously illuminate when engine is getting preheated. Start the engine only after the indica- tor turns ‘OFF’. Turn Signal Green ndicates direction indicated by the turn signal. Blinks along with buzzer while operating left/right turn indicator only when ignition is switched ‘ON’. High Beam Blue lluminates when the high beam headlamps are switched ‘ON’ or lashed. Low Oil Pressure

Beam Blue lluminates when the high beam headlamps are switched ‘ON’ or lashed. Low Oil Pressure Red 1. Illuminates when ignition is switched ‘ON’. Once engine is started, it turns ‘OFF’ once required oil pressure is achieved. 2. Illuminates continuously if there is insufficient oil pressure. Stop the vehicle as soon as safety permits and switch off the engine. Check engine oil level and top-up if required. Contact TATA MOTORS assistance before starting the engine. Battery charging Red Illuminates when ignition is switched ‘ON’. Once engine is started, it turns ‘OFF’. It will continuously illuminate when there is malfunction of charg- ing system. Contact a TATA MOTORS Authorised Service Centre. 57  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Warning Lamps Park Brake / Brake Fluid Low / EBD Fault Color Red Indicator ©) Remarks Illuminates momentarily when ignition is switched ‘ON’. Once park- ing brake is released, it turns ‘OFF’. If it remains ‘ON’, it indicates 1. Brake fluid level is low. 2. Park brake

it turns ‘OFF’. If it remains ‘ON’, it indicates 1. Brake fluid level is low. 2. Park brake is applied & turns ‘OFF’ when it is released. 3. ABS/EBD system has a fault. Driver seat belt warning Red Indicates that seat belt is not fastened when ignition is ‘ON’. It will be continuously 'ON' if the seat belt is not fastened. When the vehicle speed goes above 15 kmph seat belt alarm will be audible. If seat belt is not fastened and vehicle speed goes above 15 Kmph, then final warning will start with telltale flashing and Audio chime for 90 seconds. After 90 seconds, telltale will be ON and Audio chime will be OFF. Note: e Telltale will turn off either when seatbelt is buckled or Reverse gear is engaged when it is in initial warning stage. e When itis in final warning with Chime ON, the telltale will be OFF on fastening the seat belt or engaging the reverse gear. 58  Warning Lamps Airbag status Color Red Indicator DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Remarks luminates momentarily when ignition is

status Color Red Indicator DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Remarks luminates momentarily when ignition is switched ‘ON’. I It will continuously illuminate when there is malfunction of airbag (SRS) system. Contact a TATA MOTORS Authorised Service Centre immediately. EPAS (if applicable) Amber Illuminates momentarily when ignition is switched ‘ON’. Illuminates when there is a fault in the EPAS. Contact a TATA MO- TORS Authorised Service Centre immediately. High Coolant Tempera- ture Red If the coolant temperature reading is very high, the warning Telltale flashes with an audible buzzer. In this case, stop the vehicle, switch ‘OFF’ the engine and cool it own for some time. Contact a nearest TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre immediately for rectification. High Coolant temperature warning may come when cooling fans in radiator sections are malfunctioning. ABS (if applicable) Amber Illuminates momentarily when ignition is switched ‘ON’. IIluminates continuously if there is any malfunction in

momentarily when ignition is switched ‘ON’. IIluminates continuously if there is any malfunction in ABS. Normal braking system will be operational without assistance of ABS. Contact a TATA MOTORS Authorised Service Centre immediately. 59  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES (If applicable) Manual Transmission system. Contact a TATA MOTORS authorized Ser- Warning Lamps Color Indicator Remarks Illuminates momentarily when ignition is switched ‘ON’. Illuminates when fuel level is low. 1% bar on fuel gauge will start blink- Low Fuel Amber ing when fuel level is low. Refill the fuel tank as soon as possible. IMPORTANT: The warning light will start flashing if there is any fault in the fuel system. Contact a TATA MOTORS Authorised Service Centre immediately. ECO Green FCO ECO indicates Economy drive. This mode is used to achieve better fuel (For MT) (If applicable) economy. city Blue CITY CITY mode is default mode. This mode is used to achieve optimum torque. SPORT Amber This indicates comes when

is default mode. This mode is used to achieve optimum torque. SPORT Amber This indicates comes when vehicle is ina SPORT mode. It is applicable (For AMT) (If applicable) only in AMT. This mode is used to product more torque from engine. Illuminates momentarily when ignition is switched ‘ON’. Illuminates continuously when there is a fault in Automatic vice Centre immediately. 60  Warning Lamps Front passenger Seat Belt Indicator Color Red Indicator DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Remarks Illuminates when ignition is switched ‘ON’ and goes ‘OFF’ after 4 Seconds. The warning lamp remains ‘ON’ if the front passenger seat is occupied and seat belt is not fastened. If seat belts remains unbuckled and vehicle speed goes above 15 kmph, then final warning will start illuminates with audio chime for 90 seconds continuously. Speed limit warning in- dicator Amber Illuminates when ignition is switched ‘ON’ and goes ‘OFF’ after 4 Seconds. When the vehicle speed cross 80 km/hrs. then Speed limit Warning in-

goes ‘OFF’ after 4 Seconds. When the vehicle speed cross 80 km/hrs. then Speed limit Warning in- dicator turn ‘ON’ along with for every 2 minute chime shall be sounded (Audible warning). If vehicle speed crosses 120 km/hrs. then along with Speed limit Warn- ing Indicator, Chime will start continuously ON till the vehicle speed is above 115 km/hrs. If vehicle speed reduced below 115 km/hrs, chime will be sounded one beam per two min. but speed limit warning indicator will remains ‘ON’ continuously. When the vehicle speed is reduce below 75 km/hrs. then Speed limit Warning Indicator along with chime will gets turns ‘OFF’. 61  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Warning Lamps DPF Lamp (Diesel) Color Amber Indicator Remarks The warning light or symbol switches on constantly to indicate that the DPF needs to eliminate the trapped pollutants (particulate mat- ter) through the regeneration process, it therefore does not indicate a malfunction. The warning light or symbol remain off during the en- tire

does not indicate a malfunction. The warning light or symbol remain off during the en- tire DPF regeneration and light up only when driving conditions re- quire the driver to be notified. To switch off the warning light or sym- bol, keep the car running until regeneration is complete (ideally at 34 gear, 60 km/hr. with engine speed over 2000 rpm). The process normally takes about 20 minutes. Note: Failure to be observed the appropriate procedure for a long distance when the DPF warning light comes ON, can cause the warning light (MIL) to come ON. In that case, please contact nearest TATA authorized service center to restore correct DPF operation. 62  Audio Reminders Key in reminder While leaving your vehicle, if you forget the key inside the vehicle in Ignition ‘OFF’ position, buzzer will provide audio warning. Remove Key to stop the warn- ing. Park lamp ‘ON’ reminder While leaving your vehicle, if you forget to turn ‘OFF’ the headlamps, buzzer will provide audio warning. Switch ‘OFF’

vehicle, if you forget to turn ‘OFF’ the headlamps, buzzer will provide audio warning. Switch ‘OFF’ Park Lamps to stop the warning. Do not forget to turn ‘OFF’ your headlamps as it may drain your vehicle battery. Park brake ‘ON’ reminder If Park Brake is applied and vehicle is driven, Tell tale will turn ‘ON’ and buzzer will provide audio warning continuously. Disengage the park brake to stop audio warning. Reverse gear reminder When Reverse Gear is engaged, audio warning for 1 sec will alert you. Driver seat Belt reminder If seat belt remains unbuckled and vehi- cle speed goes above 15 km/ hrs, Final Waring will start. Audio Chime will con- tinue for 90 seconds. Seat belt telltale will be flash when audio alarm is active. Front passenger seat belt reminder If Front passenger is present & its seat belt remains unbuckled and vehicle speed goes above 15 km/ hrs. Final Warning will start. Audio Chime will con- tinue for 90 seconds. Seat belt telltale will be flash when audio alarm is

Audio Chime will con- tinue for 90 seconds. Seat belt telltale will be flash when audio alarm is active. Buckle the seat belt to stop Audible warning. DASHBOARD AND FEATURES AMT fault Reminder If Fault occur in AMT, 3 second audio warning will alert you. Drive mode chime Manual Transmission: When drive mode changes from City to Eco mode or Eco to City mode, audio warning will be alert for one second. Automatic Transmission: When Drive mode changes from Manual to Auto or Auto to Manual, audio warning will be alert for one second. 63  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Combi-Switch (RH Stalk) 1. Left Turn signal - Move the lever fully upward. 2. Right Turn signal - Move the lever fully downward. When the turn is completed, the sig- nal will cancel and the lever will re- turn to its normal position. 64 3. High beam - Move the lever forward to select the High Beam function. Pull the lever back to normal for low beam. 4. High beam Flash (spring return) To flash the high beam, pull the lever towards

for low beam. 4. High beam Flash (spring return) To flash the high beam, pull the lever towards you from the normal posi- tion. It will return to its normal posi- tion when you release it. 5. Headlamp Rotary Switch i) OFF Position & OFF All lamps will remain ‘OFF’. ii) Parking Lamp Rotate stalk to turn ‘ON’ the Parking lamps. iii) Low Beam ip) Rotate stalk to turn ‘ON’ the Low Beam function. 6. Lane Change Signal To signal a lane change, move the lever slightly up or down respective to the point where the turn signal light begins to flash, but the lever does not latch. The turn signal will flash 3 times automati- cally. 7. Head lamp leveling rotary switch Inner rotary switch on right hand stalk is provided for head lamp leveling. With the inner rotary switch, Head lamp leveling can be done with head lamp in Low Beam and in ‘ON’ position. Select cor- rect position before start of trip and ve- hicle is stationary. Depending upon the number of passengers and luggage in the vehicle

and ve- hicle is stationary. Depending upon the number of passengers and luggage in the vehicle headlamp focus may change. This can be adjusted by rotating the knob to one of the 3 level positions.  Combi-Switch (LH Stalk) 0) ‘OFF’ Position The wiper is switched ‘OFF’. 1) Intermittent wipe Push the stalk upwards to operate inter- mittent wipe. Inner rotary switch on left hand stalk is provided for intermit- tent front wiper delay. The switch has 5 delay timers. 2) Slow Wipe Push the stalk towards position (2) for continuous slow wipe. 3) Fast Wipe Push the stalk towards position (3) for continuous fast wipe. 4) Flick wipe (spring return) Pull the stalk downwards and hold it for continuous wipe, the wiper continuously wipes S| the stalk is released. 5) Front Windshield Washer e Pull the lever little longer, sprayed on the windshield. e The windshield wipers operate for 3 cycles after the lever is released and across the windshield at low speed till washer fluid will be 1 more cycle

the lever is released and across the windshield at low speed till washer fluid will be 1 more cycle after 5 seconds. DASHBOARD AND FEATURES When you crank the engine, the sup- ply to washer motor is momentarily cut off. Fascia Switches — Option | Fascia switches are provided on the cen- ter console above HVAC control panel. 1. Front fog lamp switch 2. ECO mode switch 3. Electric trunk lid 65  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Option Il 1. Rear window demister switch 2. Front fog lamp switch 3. Electric trunk lid Option Ill 66 1. Electric trunk lid 2. Front fog lamp switch 3. ECO mode switch 4. Center locking switch Front Fog Lamps In conditions where visibility is poor due to fog, snow or rain, the fog lamps improve visibility as well as making it easier for other road users to see you. It turns ‘ON’ when the front fog lamp switch is pushed in with ignition ‘ON’ and position and parking / head lamp is ‘ON’. An indicator on the switch will be illumi- nated when the front fog light is ‘ON’. ECO

is ‘ON’. An indicator on the switch will be illumi- nated when the front fog light is ‘ON’. ECO mode Switch (if equipped) Refer DRIVE MODES chapter ECO in ‘STARTING and DIVING’ section. Electric Trunk lid To open the trunk lid, press the switch located on fascia switch. Rear Window Demister (if equipped) The switch turns the rear window demister ON/OFF. It operates when engine is run- ning. The system will be deactivated af- ter 15 min of continuous operation. An indicator on the switch will be illumi- nate when the rear window demister is ‘ON’ Center locking switch All the doors can be lock Ey and unlock from inside the vehicle by pressing this switch. NOTE All doors are closed while using the center locking switch.  Steering Wheel Switches (LHS) (if equipped) c Volume - To increase (+) / decrease (-) volume of music system / radio. Mute / phone reject To reject or hang up a phone call. It is also used to mute the volume of music system / radio. Seek forward / backward To change

call. It is also used to mute the volume of music system / radio. Seek forward / backward To change radio channels. Source - To select the required source in the infotainment (USB, AUX, AM, FM). Steering Wheel Switches (RHS) (if equipped) Phone receive This button is used to accept incoming call when a cell phone is connected via Bluetooth. NOTE For more information on steering wheel switches refer Infotainment manual. DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Mic A mic is provided on roof interior above driver seat position. Speakers (if equipped) Speakers and tweeters are provided on models with infotainment system. While provisions are given for music system and speakers on versions without info- tainment system. 67  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Infotainment System (Option |) (Option I!) 68 NOTE For more information on Infotain- ment system refer below link http://service.tatamotors.com/con- tent/owners-manual. USB/AUX Port (if equipped) Connect your portable digital music play- ers, pen drives etc. to

USB/AUX Port (if equipped) Connect your portable digital music play- ers, pen drives etc. to this socket for playing music tracks through the vehi- cles music system. Power Socket (if equipped) Two power sockets are provided. The power socket will work when the ignition switch is in the “ACC” or “ON” position. This socket can be used to provide 12V (10A) power for electrical accessories. NOTE Use of inappropriate electrical ac-ac- cessories can cause damage to your vehicle’s electrical system. Make sure that any electrical accessories you use are designed to plug into this type of socket.  Antenna (Option |) ii Antenna is located on the roof. Turn an- tenna counter clockwise to remove from vehicle, if required. (Option I!) Re es A EONS Bek Shark FIN antenna is provided on the roof at rear end. DASHBOARD AND FEATURES Roof Lamp Interior roof lighting lamp is provided on the roof with inbuilt switch. The switch has three positions: ON - The lamp will turn ‘ON’ as long as the switch is in

switch. The switch has three positions: ON - The lamp will turn ‘ON’ as long as the switch is in this position. WAG DOOR - In this position the lamp turns ‘ON’ with dim- ming when either of the doors are opened. When the last door is closed, the lamp will remain ‘ON’ for 69 vie  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES 25 sec and turns ‘OFF’ with dimming. This helps settling in the seat and in- serting the key in the ignition switch. When the key is turned to the ‘IGN’ po- sition, the lamp goes ‘OFF’ immedi- ately. OFF - In this position the lamp will remain ‘OFF’. 70 Roof Grab Handle Roof grab handles are provided on all seats except driver’s seat. This helps in comfortable positioning of passengers during a journey. Boot Lamp (if equipped) Boot lamp is provided in the luggage compartment to illuminate the luggage area. Switch is provided on lamp to turn “‘ON’/ ‘OFF’ boot lamp. If switch is re- tained in ‘ON’ position, Boot lamp will turn ‘ON’ automatically on opening the trunk lid.  Tag Holder rs ion

‘ON’ position, Boot lamp will turn ‘ON’ automatically on opening the trunk lid.  Tag Holder rs ion —— SN Ma Tag holder is provided near the front windshield for ease of displaying toll, parking tickets, ID's, passes, labels etc. DASHBOARD AND FEATURES 71  DASHBOARD AND FEATURES 72  STOWAGE AREAS Storage Compartments 1) Glove box 4) Driver side pocket 7) Trunk lid compartment 2) Utility pockets on front doors 5) Center console 3) Utility pockets on rear doors 6) Foldable arm rest 73  STOWAGE AREAS 1) Glove box To open - Press the knob and open the glove box flap. To close - Fold glove box flap upwards until it engages. 74 1. Vent - Chiller glove box (If applicable) 2. Laptop holder 3. Pen/ Visiting card holder On selected models, cooling facility- ty is also provided. It cools the glove box only when the AC is ‘ON’. Chiller glove box (If applicable) Upper Glove Box is provided with a cool- ing facility. It cools the glove box only when the front A/C is ON. Shut OFF the vent by rotating

ing facility. It cools the glove box only when the front A/C is ON. Shut OFF the vent by rotating the knob, whenever cooling is not required. 2) Utility pockets on front doors 3) Utility pockets on rear doors Utility pockets are provided on front and rear doors and it can be used to keep magazines/books, water bottles etc. 4) Driver side Pocket You can keep suitable items in the space provided.  NOTE d) Bottle holder 7 . 6) Foldable arm rest Use cups, containers, bottles of right size and which have lids. The drinks A foldable arm rest has been provided in could otherwise spill. the rear seat. It also has two cup holders, which can be accessed by opening the 5) Center console cover. When not required, fold the arm- rest back into the seat. a) Stowage compartment Stowage compartment provided for keeping cell phones, iPod’s, chargers etc. Remove all items and cups before b) Cup holder c) Coin storage folding the cup holders STOWAGE AREAS 7) Trunk lid Compartment Store the luggage in

c) Coin storage folding the cup holders STOWAGE AREAS 7) Trunk lid Compartment Store the luggage in trunk lid. WARNING Distribute the items of luggage as evenly as possible. Position heavy loads as far forwards as possible and as low down in the trunk lid as possible. The load must not protrude above the luggage cover. Never allow occu- pants to travel in the luggage com- partment. 75  STOWAGE AREAS Card holder (If applicable) A pocket is provided on the back of the driver side sun visor to keep cards, pa- pers etc. 76 Coat hook Coat hook is provided on rear passenger right side grab handle. Keep the sun visors in their original position when not in use or else, they may block driver's vision. WARNING : The coat hook cannot restrain heavy objects or items of luggage. Never hang hard, sharp-edged or fragile objects on the coat hook.. Collapsible hook Collapsible hook is provided for hanging carry bags etc. Load up to 2 kgis permis- sible.  CLIMATE CONTROL The HVAC is operational when

carry bags etc. Load up to 2 kgis permis- sible.  CLIMATE CONTROL The HVAC is operational when engine is running and blower is ‘ON’. The Climate control regulates the temperature in the vehicle interior and filters dust particles. You can manually set the desired temperature Air Distribution- The air is distributed through the vents in the passenger compartment as shown below: 77  CLIMATE CONTROL Air vents HVAC Controls (if applicable) A. Air distribution control Air vents are provided on dashboard. Air flow and its direction can be adjusted with the help of knob provided on re- spective vent. This is to select the air distribution pat- tern as described in the table. > ? Directs air through the cen- ri er and side air vents B. Blower Speed Control => @ | Directs air through the cen- C. Temperature Control Yr! | ter, side and foot well vents D. Air Intake Selector H Directs air through the foot E. AC ON/OFF Switch v rf well air vents Ge Directs air through the de- gu rl roster & foot

the foot E. AC ON/OFF Switch v rf well air vents Ge Directs air through the de- gu rl roster & foot well vents (Default fresh air mode) Directs air through the de- ay roster vents (Default fresh air mode) A. Air Distribution Control 78  B. Blower Speed control OFF HIGH This is to turn ‘ON’ the blower and select desired blower speed. C. Temperature control LOW HIGH The temperature control dial allows you to adjust the temperature. To lower the temperature, turn the dial to the left. To NOTE The AC can be switched ‘ON’ only if the blower is ‘ON’ and engine is running. increase the temperature, turn the dial to the right. D. Air intake selector Press the switch to activate / deactivate recirculation mode. Press to ‘ON’ or ‘OFF’ Recirculation mode: (Indicator light ‘ON’) Air in the passenger compartment recir- culates. No fresh air enters the compart- ment. Always use when: e Driving on a dusty road or through tunnel. e On signals or slow traffic to avoid traffic pollution. e Maximum

a dusty road or through tunnel. e On signals or slow traffic to avoid traffic pollution. e Maximum cooling is required. CLIMATE CONTROL Fresh Air mode: (Indicator light ‘OFF’) Fresh air is drawn into the vehicle. Always use when: e Discomfort is felt or windows are fogging up. e Using er) or GH air flow modes during demist / defrost. e Using normal heating mode. E. AC ON/OFF Press the switch to activate / deactivate the climate control. The indicator lamp in the button will light up when climate con- trol is activated. When AC is switched ‘ON’, engine idling RPM increases marginally to adjust the AC compressor load. When desired temperature is achieved AC trips ‘OFF’ automatically. 79  CLIMATE CONTROL Recommended basic settings of the control elements of air conditioning system for the respective operating modes. These may vary depending on individual requirements and weather conditions. Normal heating A. Air Flow Direction B. Blower Speed C. Air Temperature D. Air Intake E. AC ON /

Normal heating A. Air Flow Direction B. Blower Speed C. Air Temperature D. Air Intake E. AC ON / OFF fier GS or op 2"4 or 3° dot Desired temp. Fresh air mode. Switched OFF Quick heating oo To MAX speed and then 2"¢ or 3" dot To the right up to the stop Briefly switch ON to Fresh air mode then Recirculation Switched OFF Recirculation Normal Cooling of or of 1% to 3 dot Desired temperature mode Switched ON Quick Cooling oF y et anthen 20 Tethe left up to the Recirculation Switched ON 3 dot Demisting Gy 2™ or 3 dot Desired temperature (Default) mode ‘op tone) Defrosting Gy To MAX speed Desired temperature (Default) mode ‘op tone) 80  NOTE Condensation may drip from the underside of the vehicle when it is in cooling mode. Traces of water on the ground are normal and are not a sign that there is a malfunc- tion. Ventilate the vehicle for a brief pe- riod during warm weather. This will speed up the cooling process and the desired vehicle interior temperature will be reached quickly. Never

up the cooling process and the desired vehicle interior temperature will be reached quickly. Never cover the air vents or air in- take grilles in the vehicle interior. If the AC is not used for a long pe- riod, such as during winter, it may not give the best performance when you start using it again. Op- erate the AC at least once a month to maintain optimum _ perfor- mance. While starting the vehicle itself af- ter long duration (more than 15 days), following procedure needs to be followed to meet AC perfor- mance. Start the vehicle with AC & Blower in OFF condition in idling for 2~3 minutes. Then switch ON the AC & Blower and run it for another 2~3 minutes in idling for proper circu- lation of refrigerant & oil to lubri- cate the internal parts of AC sys- tem. CLIMATE CONTROL 81  CLIMATE CONTROL FULLY AUTOMATIC TEMPERATURE CONTROL (FATC) GENERAL DESCRIPTION (if applicable) FATC system controls the in-cabin Temperature of the vehicle automatically and provides maximum passen- ger

controls the in-cabin Temperature of the vehicle automatically and provides maximum passen- ger convenience regardless of outside weather condi- tions. If the display flashes ‘ERR’ in periodic pattern (Dis- play will show ‘ERR’ for 5 sec. and set tem-prema- ture for 30 sec.), It indicates FATC malfunctioning. Switch over to manual mode and con-tact a TATA MOTORS authorized service Centre. 1. AC compressor ON/OFF button 2. Blower speed control knob 3. Econ (economy mode) button 4. Maximum defrost button 5. Rear window demister button 6. Fresh air / recirculation button 7. Air distribution (mode) button 8. OFF mode 9. Auto on selection button 10. Temperature control knob 82  DISPLAY UNIT AUTO. jw ECON $6 FATC display is shown on infotainment display screen. FATC functions can be controlled using both the FATC control panel and the touch screen display. Whenever the user presses any push button or turns the rotary knob, then the display unit will show the relevant Cli- mate Information )

or turns the rotary knob, then the display unit will show the relevant Cli- mate Information ) MEDIA USB ¢ Main Kya Karoon © Burfi ECON & AUTO Also, when the display is not in climate mode then climate information will be displayed on the all-time display provide on the bottom bar. CLIMATE CONTROL 1. AC COMPRESSOR ON / OFF BUTTON: At + Press the AC compressor ON/OFF button to turn the air conditioning ON or OFF. You will see AC text on the display, when AC is ON. 2. BLOWER SPEED CONTROL KNOB: as A. Rotate the knob clockwise to in- crease the blower speed up to MAX 7 speed, where as anti-clockwise would re- duce the speed up to ‘SPEED 1’. 83  CLIMATE CONTROL B. In ‘AUTO’ mode, the FATC system will regulate the blower speed automatically. 3. ECON BUTTON: During ECON AC operation, the system automatically cuts off compressor at a higher temperature than normal AC. The operation can be used during mild weather conditions for better fuel effi- ciency. The outside air intakes for the cli-

during mild weather conditions for better fuel effi- ciency. The outside air intakes for the cli- mate control systems are at the base of windscreen. Keep this area clear from leaves and other debris. Comfort level may be compromised dur- ing this operation. By pressing ECON but- ton text will be displayed on display. 84 4. MAX DEFROST BUTTON: A. This button directs the main airflow to- wards windscreen for faster defrosting. (It also overrides any mode selection you may have made.) B. When you turn off the button, the sys- tem returns to its former settings. NOTE For your safety make sure you have a clear view through all the windows before driving. 5. REAR WINDOW DEMISTER BUTTON: A. This button turns the rear window de- mister ON or OFF. The system will be deactivated after 15 min of continu- ous operation. 6. FRESH AIR / RECIRCULATION BUTTON: A. When the recirculation Button or LED is switched css ‘ON’, air from the vehi- cle’s interior is sent throughout the system. B. When the

is switched css ‘ON’, air from the vehi- cle’s interior is sent throughout the system. B. When the recirculation button is switched off, air is brought in from out- side of the vehicle (fresh mode). When- ever discomfort is felt, switch to fresh air mode. The system should be used with recircu- lation air mode for faster heat up and cool down, however keeping the system in recirculation mode, particularly with AC OFF, can cause the windows fog up. 7. AIR DISTRIBUTION (MODE) BUTTON: A. In AUTO mode, the FATC system will regulate wt the mode automatically. Ho ever, user override is  CLIMATE CONTROL possible with the use of MODE button to select the desired airflow mode. Each time you press the MODE button, the display shows the mode selected. > ? Air flows from the cen- r ter and side air vents > e Air flows from the cen- aye rl ter, side vents and foot well vents 4 Air flows from mainly wb fr’ foot well vents Air flows from the de- kerry) e froster and foot well Gp vents (always select

fr’ foot well vents Air flows from the de- kerry) e froster and foot well Gp vents (always select fresh air mode) lows from the de- Air GH froster vents (always select fresh air mode) 8. “OFF” BUTTON: Press the OFF button to switch OFF The system. OFF will be displayed on the dis- play. 9. AUTO ON SELECTION BUTTON ain, To put the automatic climate control in fully automatic mode: A. Press the ‘AUTO’ button. B. Set the desired temperature by turn- ing temperature control knob. The display will show all the functions during ‘AUTO’ mode. C. The system automatically selects the proper mix of conditioned and / or heated air that will, as quickly as pos- sible, raise or lower the interior tem- perature to your preference. D. When you set the temperature to its lower limit (Lo) or its upper limit (Hi), the system runs at full cooling or heating only. It doesn’t regulate the interior temperature. Semi-automatic Operation You can manually select various func- tions of the climate control

Semi-automatic Operation You can manually select various func- tions of the climate control system when it is in fully automatic mode. All other features remain automatically con- trolled. Making any manual selection causes the word ‘AUTO’ in the display to go OFF and overridden setting is dis- played. System will remain in semiauto- matic mode till ‘AUTO’ is re-pressed. 85  CLIMATE CONTROL 10. TEMPERATURE CONTROL KNOB: ata, Turning the temperature control knob clockwise increases the temperature of the air. The desired temperature will be increased by steps of 0.5°C. User can se- lect temperature range from 18°C to 30°C. Whereas the anticlockwise direc- tion decreases the temperature. When you set the temperature to its lower limit (Lo) or its upper limit (Hi), the system runs at full cooling or heating only. It doesn’t regulate the interior tem- perature. 86  CLIMATE CONTROL Functions Control Knob Position Button Position te . es =~, my a ee AE Normal Desired Desired Swi ched OFF

Control Knob Position Button Position te . es =~, my a ee AE Normal Desired Desired Swi ched OFF OFF OFF Swi ched ON heating Speed Temp. OF OF Quick Max. To the right Switched OFF Switched Switched Switched ON heating speed up to the stop OF OF| OF| OF Normal Desired | To the right up | Switched Switched Switched Switched . - ON — — — ON Cooling speed to the stop OF OF OF OF Quick Max To the right up | Switched ON Switched Switched Switched ON Cooling speed to the stop OF| OF OF OF | sg Max To the right up | Switched Switched Switched Switched Demisting speed to the stop OF OFF OF OF OF OFF Demisting Max To the right up | Swi iched OFF Swi ched Swi ched Swi ched OFF speed to the stop OF OF OF OF 87  CLIMATE CONTROL HVAC Sensors 2. In-car sensor on control panel. HVAC system is fitted with three sensors 1. A solar sensor on top of the dash- board at the right hand side of de- froster grill 3. Outside Ambient Temperature (OAT) sensor located under the front bumper grill. NOTE e Do not

3. Outside Ambient Temperature (OAT) sensor located under the front bumper grill. NOTE e Do not cover or spill any liquid on sensors. e Do not cover sensor, this may cause the sensor to malfunction. This may lead to FATC not func- tioning to desired level. 88 If your vehicle is parked under the sun, you can cool it down fast by following the steps given below: A. B. Start the engine. Turn on A/C by pressing the button. Make sure the temperature control is set to maximum cool. In case of FATC set temperature to ‘Low’ mode. Set the fan to maximum speed. (for ETC, manual HVAC variants) Open windows half, set air direction towards face and fresh air mode. When the interior has cooled down to a more comfortable level, close windows and set the controls as re- quired in normal cooling, with recir- culation mode ON.  Pre Driving Checks Make sure that e Windshield, windows, mirrors, lights, and reflectors are clean and unob- structed. e Tools kit, jack & handle, warning tri- angle, owner’s

reflectors are clean and unob- structed. e Tools kit, jack & handle, warning tri- angle, owner’s manual, first aid kit and vehicle documents are available and stored at their locations. WARNING VAN Never put any mat on top of the floor carpet near pedal region. e All doors, engine bonnet and trunk lid are securely closed and latched. e All of your passengers are properly restrained. You and your passengers should always wear seat belts. e Objects, luggage or loads are se- cured properly against slipping or tip- ping. e Sufficient fuel for the trip. Daily check e Tyres for abnormal wear, cracks or damage and embedded foreign ma- terial such as nails, stones, etc. e Traces of fluid and oil below vehicle. NOTE Water dripping from the air condition- ing system after use is normal. e All lamps, wipers, wiper blades and horn for proper operation. e Allswitches, gauges and tell tales are working properly. Adjust: e Seats, head restraints (if equipped) and steering wheel position. e All the

properly. Adjust: e Seats, head restraints (if equipped) and steering wheel position. e All the mirrors properly. STARTING AND DRIVING Weekly check e Engine oil level * Coolant level e Brake fluid level e Windshield washer fluid level e Fuel level NOTE Check the tyre pressure regularly in- cluding spare wheel.  STARTING AND DRIVING Driving Tips Fuel consumption, engine, transmission, brake and tyre wear are mainly affected by below factors: Operating conditions of your vehicle Your personal driving style Operating conditions: 90 Avoid frequent start and stop as these increase fuel consumptions. Always make sure that the tyre pres- sures are correct. Do not carry any unnecessary weight. Regularly service your vehicle and adhere to the recommended service maintenance schedule. Personal driving style Do not depress the accelerator pedal when starting the engine. Do not warm up the engine when the vehicle is stationary. Always adapt your driving style to suit the prevailing road and

when the vehicle is stationary. Always adapt your driving style to suit the prevailing road and weather con- ditions and maintain a safe distance from the vehicle in front. Drive care- fully. Avoid frequent, sudden acceleration and braking. Select appropriate gear according to varying speeds and load conditions. NOTE Do not rest your foot on the clutch pe- dal while driving. Switch ‘OFF’ the engine in stationary traffic or at signals. Keep an eye on the vehicle's fuel con- sumption. Driving safety systems are merely aids designed to assist driving. You are responsible for the distance to the vehicle in front, for vehicle speed and anticipating braking in good time. WARNING You could lose control of your vehicle if you try to adjust the driver's seat, head restraint, mirror, steering wheel and fasten the seat belt while driving. There is a risk of an accident.  Recommended fuel economy speeds (For MT) Gear Speed (km/h) Diesel Petrol 1 15 15 2 25 30 3 45 45 4 65 65 5 80 80 Good driving

(For MT) Gear Speed (km/h) Diesel Petrol 1 15 15 2 25 30 3 45 45 4 65 65 5 80 80 Good driving practices Slow down before shifting to a lower gear. This will help avoiding revving of the engine causing damage. Avoid frequent brake application which can cause overheating of brakes. Slower the vehicle speed while trav- elling in cross winds. This gives much better control over the vehicle. Avoid high speed when cornering or turning. Depress the clutch fully while shifting gears. Make sure that vehicle is completely stationary before you attempt to shift in reverse gear. Drive slowly on wet roads. You can get extra braking from the engine by shifting to a lower gear. This can help you to maintain a safe speed and prevent your brakes from overheating specially while going down a hill. Tips for obtaining better fuel effi- ciency Always maintain the specified tyre pressure during fuel top-ups and also before a long trip. Vehicle running with low tyre pressure will consume more fuel than the

and also before a long trip. Vehicle running with low tyre pressure will consume more fuel than the one running with specified tyre pressure. STARTING AND DRIVING Keep the vehicle clean. Get rid of the not in use luggage/stuff lying in the boot etc. Regularly inspect your vehicle for any leakages, worn out wires by rat bites etc. Always follow periodic & regular ser- vice schedule of the vehicle. n places with high dust content (e.g. Gurgaon, Jaisalmer etc.), Clean air fil- ter element more frequently. Drive smart and smooth in an antici- patory manner. Select driving mode to suit your style. Do not accelerate excessively when you are in lower gears (1* or 2"4). Be gentle on the accelerator when you are in traffic. In lower gear, opening more throttle will shoot the engine RPM keeping the vehicle still at lower speeds which indirectly implies less distance with more fuel. 91  STARTING AND DRIVING e Be in the maximum possible higher gear at a given speed. This reduces the engine

AND DRIVING e Be in the maximum possible higher gear at a given speed. This reduces the engine operating speeds which means the engine is running at lower rpm (Revolutions per Minute) for the same vehicle speed. Lesser the num- ber of engine revolution lesser the fuel burned. e Avoid harsh braking. e Maintain healthy driving habits & while decelerating, do coasting in gear and not in neutral or with clutch pedal depressed. e Consider using the car AC when you really require. Consider using lower blower speeds rather than higher for cooling as at higher blower speeds it consumes more electric power which is ultimately drawn from en- gine by burning fuel. e Avoid unnecessary extra electrical loading on the car. e Stop the engine wisely at traffic sig- nals. Switch ‘OFF’ the engine at the traffic signal only if the stoppage 92 time is high (typically more than 30 sec). e While driving on highways, drive with windows closed. The more you open the windows the higher will be the resistance

drive with windows closed. The more you open the windows the higher will be the resistance to the vehicle at higher speeds which will reduce the fuel ef- ficiency. e Do not over speed; follow the speed limits. More the speed, higher the external resistance on the vehicle which will finally result into unneces- sary consumption of fuel. Running-in period The more you look after the engine when it is new, the more satisfied you will be with its performance in the future. Avoid rapid acceleration and prolonged high speed running of the engine for the first 1,500 — 1,800 kms. Do not exceed the following road speeds during running in period. Speed(km/h) | Speed(km/h) 1 20 20 2 30 40 3 50 60 4 70 80 5 90 100 Avoid heavy loads, e.g. driving at ful throttle, during this period. Change gears judiciously. NO Avoid excessive revving up of engine rpm. Do not keep engine at idling for long duration.  Seat Adjustments Front seat adjustments Following seat adjustments can be car- ried out manually.

Seat Adjustments Front seat adjustments Following seat adjustments can be car- ried out manually. 1. Backrest angle 2. Seat height (if equipped) 3. Seat forward / rearward adjustment lever WARNING uN Do not adjust the driver's seat while driving. Adjusting the seat while driv- ing could cause the driver to lose con- trol of the vehicle. Seat backrest angle adjustment To change the seat back rest angle, lean forward slightly and pull up the lever (1). Adjust seat backrest until it reaches de- sired comfortable position. Make sure that lever returns to its original position and seat is securely latched. Adjust the seat backrest until your arms are slightly angled when hold- ing the steering wheel. WARNING UN Never travel in a moving vehicle with the seat backrest in an excessively STARTING AND DRIVING reclined position as this can be dan- gerous. You could slide under the seat belt in a collision. Seat height adjustment (if equipped) To raise the seat, pull and continue pumping the

a collision. Seat height adjustment (if equipped) To raise the seat, pull and continue pumping the lever (2) in the upward di- rection until the seat is at the desired height. To lower the seat, pump the lever down- ward until the seat is at desired height. Seat forward / rearward adjustment Lift lever (3) and slide the seat forwards or rearwards. Release lever and make sure that seat is securely latched. Adjust the driver seat position in such a way that the driver will be able to operate the controls pedals comfort- ably. 93  STARTING AND DRIVING Adjustable head restraint (If equipped) Adjust the head restraint so that it is as close to the head as possible and the center of the head restraint supports the back of the head at eye level. This will reduce the potential for injury to the head and neck in the event of an acci- dent or similar situation. 94 os Correctly adjusted | Incorrectly adjusted | Incorrectly adjusted WARNING Do not drive the vehicle without the seat head

Incorrectly adjusted | Incorrectly adjusted WARNING Do not drive the vehicle without the seat head restraints. Head restraints are intended to help reduce injuries during an accident. Le Head restraint are not adjustable for seats with integrated head restraints. Rear seats Fixed rear seats are provided. Refer ‘Stowage area’ section for more details. Rear View Mirrors Inside Rear View Mirror (IRVM) To adjust the mirror, set the selector knob to the normal position and then move the mirror up, down or sideways manually to obtain the best rear view. When driving at night, set the selector tab to select anti-glare mode to reduce glare from the headlights of vehicles be- hind you.  NOTE Use antiglare position only when nec- essary, as it reduces rear view clarity. Outer Rear View Mirrors You can adjust the outer rear view mir- rors manually with the knob located on the driver’s and front passenger’s door panel. Adjust the outside rear view mir- rors to desired position. NOTE Objects

passenger’s door panel. Adjust the outside rear view mir- rors to desired position. NOTE Objects visible in mirror are actually closer than they appear. Always make sure of the actual distance from the road users traveling be-hind by glancing over your shoulder. Motorized outer rear view mirrors (If equipped) The switch to adjust the motorized mir- rors is located on the driver’s door. You can adjust the mirrors when the ignition switch is in the “ACC” or “ON” position. Auto folding (If equipped) To fold / unfold the ORVMs, keep the Se- lector switch in center position (i.e. nei- ther ‘L’ nor ‘R, position) and then toggle down. STARTING AND DRIVING To adjust the mirrors: 1. Move the selector switch to the left (L) or right (R) to select the mirror you wish to adjust. 2. Press the outer part of the switch that corresponds to the direction in which you wish to move the mirror. Sun Visors The sun visors can be pulled down to block glare coming through the wind- shield. 95  STARTING AND

The sun visors can be pulled down to block glare coming through the wind- shield. 95  STARTING AND DRIVING To block glare from side windows Pull down the sun visor and release it from retainer. Swing the sun visor to the side. Vanity mirror Vanity mirror is provided on the back of the front passenger side sun visor. Steering Wheel Adjustment DS? unrock You can adjust the steering wheel posi- tion to suit your convenience. The release lever is located under the steering column. 96 To adjust the steering wheel 1. Adjust the seat to a comfortable po- sition. 2. Push release lever completely down to unlock the steering column. 3. Adjust the steering wheel to the de- sired position. 4. Pull release lever up completely to lock the steering column. 5. Make sure that steering wheel is se- curely locked by checking up and down direction. When adjusting the steering wheel, make sure that: You can operate control pedals with- out any obstacles. You can see all the displays in the in- strument

operate control pedals with- out any obstacles. You can see all the displays in the in- strument cluster clearly. WARNING VAN Before starting off, make sure the steering wheel position is locked. Never unlock or adjust the steering wheel while the vehicle is in motion. Steering lock cum ignition switch The ignition switch has the following four positions: LOCK - This is the normal parking posi- tion. Key from lock can be removed in this position only.  “LOCK” position prevents normal use of the steering wheel after the key is re- moved. To release the steering lock, insert the key and turn it clockwise to one of the other positions. ACC - Accessories such as the infotain- ment system can be operated, but the engine remains ‘OFF’. Steering gets un- locked. ON - This is the normal operating posi- tion. All electrical systems are ‘ON’. START - Turn the key further clockwise to the START position, (spring loaded) to start the engine. As soon as the engine starts, release the ignition key,

(spring loaded) to start the engine. As soon as the engine starts, release the ignition key, which re- turns to ON position. While cranking, all accessories will be momentarily ‘OFF’. Illuminated Key Ring (if equipped) When the vehicle is unlocked, the illumi- nated key ring glows up. This helps to lo- cate ignition switch in the dark. Starting the Engine (Manual Trans- mission) Make sure that parking brake is en- gaged and vehicle is in neutral gear. Depress the clutch pedal fully and crank the engine. Do not press the accelerator pedal when starting the engine. The Starter protection system fit-ted in this vehicle does not allow you to crank the engine until you fully de- press the clutch pedal. Release the key as soon as the engine starts. Repeat if engine does not start. NOTE The Starter protection system switches off the starter when it is cranked for more than 10 secs. In such a case, get the key back to ‘OFF’ position & wait for 30 secs. STARTING AND DRIVING WARNING The engine

get the key back to ‘OFF’ position & wait for 30 secs. STARTING AND DRIVING WARNING The engine emits poisonous exhaust gases such as carbon monoxide. In- haling these exhaust gases leads to poisoning. There is a risk of fatal in- jury. Therefore never leave the en- gine running in enclosed spaces with- out sufficient ventilation. Starting off To start off, depress the clutch pedal fully and shift into 1st gear. After releasing the parking brake, gradu- ally release the clutch and slowly press the accelerator. NOTE When shifting or starting off, do not race the engine. Racing the engine can shorten engine life and affect smooth shifting. 97  STARTING AND DRIVING Gear Shifting and Driving (Manual Transmission) The gearshift pattern is as shown on the gear lever knob. Gear shifting should al- ways be done with clutch pedal pressed. NOTE e Depress the clutch fully when gear shifting. The reverse gear should be engaged only when the vehicle is stationary. Wait for 5 seconds af- ter

The reverse gear should be engaged only when the vehicle is stationary. Wait for 5 seconds af- ter declutching to ensure smooth engagement of the reverse gear. Do not de-press clutch pedal while driving the vehicle stationary on a slope. « If clutch pedal lower/upper from brake pedal, in this condition cus- tomer should contact a Tata Mo- tors authorized service center. Current gear indication The Driver Information display (DIS) in the Instrument Cluster indicates the cur- rent gear position engaged. Gear recommendation Up or down arrow will be displayed in DIS, recommending whenever gear should be shifted to up or down. a « Gear recommendation is di played when the clutch pedal is in fully re- leased position. e If “F” is displayed in DIS of instru- ment cluster it means ‘Fault’ condi- tion. Contact a TA-TA MOTORS Au- thorized Service Centre. Drive modes ‘ECO’ and ‘CITY’ drive modes are pro- vided for Manual Transmission. These modes can be used to adjust engine characteristics and

pro- vided for Manual Transmission. These modes can be used to adjust engine characteristics and vehicle performance in line with desired requirement. Drive mode selection switch is provided on dashboard fascia for activation Drive Performance Mode Optimum engine Torque ECO and Power output for (for MT) FUEL EFFICIENT perfor- mance Increased engine Torque CITY and Power output for BALANCED performance SPORT Produce more torque (for AMT) | from engine.  WARNING : Do not switch off the ignition while driving. If you switch off the ignition while driving, safety-relevant functions are only available with limitations, or not at all. This could affect the power steering and the brake boosting ef- fect. You will require considerably more effort to steer and brake. There is a risk of an accident. Braking Your vehicle has power assisted brakes. The distance needed to bring the vehicle to a halt increases with the speed of the vehicle. Start applying brake anticipating the distance and slow

increases with the speed of the vehicle. Start applying brake anticipating the distance and slow down gradually. WARNING A Never use the brake pedal as a foot- rest. If you rest your foot on the brake pe- dal while driving, the braking system can overheat. This in-creases the stopping distance and can even cause the braking sys-tem to fail. There is a risk of an accident. Never depress the brake pedal and the accelerator pedal at the same time. lf you have driven for a long time in heavy rain without braking, there may be a delayed reaction from the brakes when braking for the first time. This may also STARTING AND DRIVING occur after washed. the vehicle has been Brake performance may become poor and unpredictable if brakes are wet. After driving through water or washing the underside of the vehicle, test the brakes while driving at a slow speed to see if they have maintained their normal effectiveness. If the brakes are less ef- fective than normal, dry them by repeat- edly applying

effectiveness. If the brakes are less ef- fective than normal, dry them by repeat- edly applying the brakes while driving slowly until the brakes have regained their normal effectiveness. Braking on downhill gradients On long and steep gradients, you must reduce the load on the brakes by shifting early to a lower gear. This allows you to take advantage of the engine braking ef- fect and helps avoid overheating and ex- cessive wear of the brakes. 99  STARTING AND DRIVING WARNING : Do not shift to lower gear on a slip- pery road surface in an at-tempt to in- crease the engine's braking effect, the drive wheels could lose their grip. There is an increased danger of skid- ding and accidents. 100 Switch-off the engine Turn the key to ‘ACC’ position to switch off the engine. Before switching off the engine, run the engine in idle condition for at least 30 seconds and then switch off. This will allow the engine oil to lubri- cate the turbocharger, till its speed is fully reduced and also

will allow the engine oil to lubri- cate the turbocharger, till its speed is fully reduced and also allow the unit to cool down. WARNING : A quick burst on the accelerator be- fore turning off the engine serves ab- solutely no practical purpose; it wastes fuel and is damaging espe- cially to turbocharged engine. WARNING : Do not switch the engine off when it is running at high speed. This will lead to premature turbocharger bear- ing wear. Automated Manual Transmission (AMT) Gearbox: (if fitted) Gear Shift Lever (AMT) The 5-speed Automated Manual Trans- mission (AMT) Gearbox offers a choice of two driving modes: 1. Automated mode with the gear lever in position ‘A’ 2. Manual mode with the gear lever in position ‘M’.  Starting: a. Engage the parking brake firmly. Press Brake pedal. Put the ignition 'ON' While the brake pedal is pressed, bring the shifter lever to Neutral - 'N'. Check 'N on instrument cluster. . Crank to start the engine with the brake pedal still pressed. NOTE The

'N on instrument cluster. . Crank to start the engine with the brake pedal still pressed. NOTE The engine can only be started when the gearshift lever is in “N” position with the brake pedal firmly pressed. Driving: a. °F With the engine running and brake pedal pressed, depending on your re- quirement shift the lever on R, A or M. Check the position engaged on the Instrument Cluster display. Release the parking brake. Release the brake pedal then be- cause of creep feature, vehicle will move and if required press accelera- tor pedal. NOTE Use right foot only to operate brake or accelerator pedal. Do not operate accelerator and brake pedal simultaneously. Do not use your left leg to operate the pedals while driving AMT vehicle. STARTING AND DRIVING NOTE If i displayed on the Instrument Cluster display, it means ‘Fault condi- tion. Contact a TATA MOTORS Author- ized Service Centre immediately. AMT Instruction sticker: Follow the instructions provided on the sticker before driving the

AMT Instruction sticker: Follow the instructions provided on the sticker before driving the vehicle. 101  STARTING AND DRIVING Driving Modes Neutral: 600 Vehicle is in neutral gear position. This will be indicated on instrument clus- ter. WARNING A Always make sure to keep the gear shift lever in the “N” position, when the engine is running and vehicle is stationary. 102 Do not shift the lever in “N” position, even momentarily, when the vehicle is in motion. Reverse: Reverse gear will be engaged only when vehicle is stationary and brake pedal pressed. An audio signal indicates when reverse gear is engaged. [IM will be indi- cated on instrument cluster. Automatic Mode: Automatic mode will be engaged only when vehicle is stationary and brake pe- dal pressed. An audio signal indicates when Automatic gear is engaged. will be indicated in instrument cluster Gear Upshift and Downshift will be done automatically while driving.  Manual Mode: Shift gear lever to left for engaging manual mode.

done automatically while driving.  Manual Mode: Shift gear lever to left for engaging manual mode. An audio signal indicates when manual mode is engaged. will be indicated in instrument cluster. In manual mode, driver should select the desired gear by shifting lever to, + Upshift the gears. - Downshift the gears. Push the gearshift lever to the ‘+’ direc- tion and release it. Every time the lever is operated, upshifting takes place 1 step in the order of 18%' > 2433" 34th >5" gear. Pull the gearshift lever to the ‘-’ direc- tion and release it. Every time the lever is operated, downshifting takes place in the order 5th > 4th 53° 32d > 1st gear. Down shifting of gear occurs auto- matically while braking/engine rpm reduction. In manual mode, gears are not shifted automatically unless the engine RPM threshold is reached. STARTING AND DRIVING Drive Mode: Two drive modes ‘CITY’ and ‘SPORT’ are provided. These modes can be used to adjust engine characteristics and ve- hicle performance in

are provided. These modes can be used to adjust engine characteristics and ve- hicle performance in line with desired re- quirement. CITY mode is the default mode. To activate SPORT mode, Press ‘S’ button situated on the gear shifter console. PRESS TO ACTIVATE & DEACTIVATE ‘SPORT’ mode activation will be dis- played on instrument cluster. It can be activated only in automatic mode. To deactivate press the ‘S’ button again. 103  STARTING AND DRIVING Stopping: The vehicle can be stopped by depress- ing the brake pedal regardless of the gear position. This is because the clutch is automatically disengaged to prevent the engine from stalling. If the gearshift lever is in the ‘A’ posi- tion, the gear will be downshifted to ‘1st’ when the vehicle stops. Also, if the gear- shift lever is in the ‘M’ position, the gear will be downshifted to ‘1st’ when the ve- hicle stops. NOTE ‘CITY’ mode will give optimum en- gine Torque and Power output. Drive the vehicle in ‘CITY’ mode to get max fuel

give optimum en- gine Torque and Power output. Drive the vehicle in ‘CITY’ mode to get max fuel economy. If in case of AC discom- fort switch to ‘SPORT’ mode. NOTE Exhaust fan in the engine compart- ment will remain 'ON' for a short while after IGN is switched 'OFF'. Parking: AMT does not have a parking position. The vehicle can be parked with the gear- shift lever in any position. 1. Apply the parking brake firmly. 2. Depress the brake pedal and shift the gearshift lever to the ‘R’ position on a downhill slope, or to the drive ‘A’ mode or the ‘M’ position in the manual ‘M’ mode on an uphill slope or flat road and confirm the gear po- sition by checking the gear position indicator on instrument cluster. Gear engagement (R or A) can be done with ignition ON/engine running con- dition only. Turn the key to ‘ACC’ position to switch off the engine. Before switch- ing off the engine, run the engine in w idle condition for at least 30 seconds and then switch off. WARNING A Do not switch the

engine in w idle condition for at least 30 seconds and then switch off. WARNING A Do not switch the engine off when it is running at high speed. Creeping feature: Creeping function allows the car move- ment without accelerator Pedal pressed when the brake pedal is released. This functionality is generally used in parking maneuvers, with 1st or ‘R’ gear engaged, in this situations the driver en- ters and exits from creeping just by pressing the Acc. pedal. e Creep feature is enabled for Manual as well as Auto Mode for first and reverse gear. e After vehicle cranking and brake pe- dal released vehicle starts moving without pressing accelerator Pedal.  e Whenever accelerator pedal is pressed creep function will be disa- bled. e Whenever driver door is opened and / or parking brake is engaged, creep function will be disabled. Kick down feature: In Automatic mode, while driving at a constant speed if the accelerator pedal is quickly pressed the AMT downshifts the gear (if required). It

speed if the accelerator pedal is quickly pressed the AMT downshifts the gear (if required). It ensures opti- mum acceleration to complete overtak- ing in minimal time. Driving in Adverse condition Driving Through Water: Never venture to drive through water when it flows over the guard stones ona bridge. Your car’s engine may get seriously dam- aged if attempted to cross through deep water. If at all the situation demands that you have to drive through water then; e Keep engine in fast idling and crawl the car in low gear. e After driving through water, apply brakes several times to dry the liners and to regain original braking. e Do not attempt to start the engine if car gets flooded with water. e Tow the car to a safe place. e Take the car to nearest TATA MO- TORS Authorised Service Centre to check entry of water in cylinders. e If water has entered the engine, or transaxle or AMT kit, the lubricants will have to be replaced. Get the starter and alternator checked. STARTING AND

kit, the lubricants will have to be replaced. Get the starter and alternator checked. STARTING AND DRIVING Driving on a Rainy Day: Check brakes, steering, windows, and tyres for wear and tyre pressure. Check wiper blades for proper functioning. Avoid harsh braking and sharp turns. It may cause loss of control and lead to a skid. For slowing down, shift to lower gears and brake gently. Keep lights ON if visibility is poor. Night Driving: Use head lamp main/dip beam to alert other road users on turns/ cross roads etc. Use side indicators for lane change or turning. Switch on hazard warning switch in case of hazardous parking or if your vehicle is disabled to warn the passing traffic. Maintain a speed such that you can stop within illuminated distance of head lamps. 105  STARTING AND DRIVING Climbing Sharp Gradients on Loose Surfaces (MT) Apply the parking brake firmly so that the vehicle does not roll backwards. Shift the gearshift lever to the “M” posi- tion while depressing the brake

does not roll backwards. Shift the gearshift lever to the “M” posi- tion while depressing the brake pedal. Select suitable gear position. Release the brake pedal and depress the accelerator pedal gradually, and when the vehicle starts to move, release the parking brake and depress the accel- erator pedal to start off. Choose as smooth a slope as possible and select the appropriate gear so that gear changing in the middle of the climb is not required. Changing gears in the middle of the climb can cause loss of momentum and engine stalling. Shifting to lower gear has to be done cautiously to avoid loss of traction. Under no conditions should the vehicle be moved diagonally across a hill. The danger is in loss of traction and sideways 106 slippage, possibly resulting in toppling over. If unavoidable, choose as mild an angle as possible and keep the vehicle moving. If the vehicle stalls or losses headway while climbing a steep hill, make a quick shift to reverse and allow the vehicle to

losses headway while climbing a steep hill, make a quick shift to reverse and allow the vehicle to move back with the control of engine compression. Climbing Sharp Gradients using AMT: Apply the parking brake firmly so that the vehicle does not roll backwards. Shift the gearshift lever to the “A” posi- tion while depressing the brake pedal. Make sure that the gear position indica- tor in the instrument cluster displays ‘Ist’ gear. Release the brake pedal and depress the accelerator pedal gradually, and when the vehicle starts to move, release the parking brake and depress the accel- erator pedal to start off. On climbing sharp gradients, never hold the vehicle at a stop using only the ac- celerator pedal or the creeping function. If you perform this operation for a certain period of time, this can also cause ex- cessive damage to the clutch. Descending Sharp Gradients (MT) Depending on the severity of the gradi- ent, shift into appropriate gear. Use en- gine braking judiciously

on the severity of the gradi- ent, shift into appropriate gear. Use en- gine braking judiciously without over rev- ving the engine. Brake application under such situations should be done very smoothly to avoid loss of control. Select appropriate gear so that gear changing or clutch disen- gagement is not involved while descend- ing the gradient. Creeping function will not operate when vehicle is in standstill condition on inclined surface.  WARNING : Try not to hold the brake pedal down too long or too often while going down a steep or long hill. This could cause the brakes to over- heat, resulting in reduced braking ef- ficiency. Failure to take this precau- tion could result in loss of vehicle control. WARNING : When descending on sharp gradi- ents, NEVER turn the ignition key to the ‘OFF’ position. Emission control system damage may result. Descending Sharp Gradients using AMT: Depress the brake pedal and shift the gear shift lever to the ‘A’ position. Make sure that the gear

Depress the brake pedal and shift the gear shift lever to the ‘A’ position. Make sure that the gear position indicator in the instrumental cluster displays ‘1st’ gear. Release the brake pedal and depress the accelerator pedal slowly. Even if the accelerator pedal is not depressed, the clutch will be engaged when the vehicle speed increases. Using Engine Braking When driving on the downhill slope, down shifting is recommended. So you can use engine braking. By placing the gearshift lever in “M” po- sition, the manual (M) mode is selected, and you can shift to a lower gear manu- ally. Parking Brake Mechanical parking brake acting only on the rear wheels is provided on the vehi- cle. STARTING AND DRIVING Parking brake applied To apply the parking brake, pull the lever up fully (1). The parking brakes tell-tale illuminates on the instrument cluster. tidy Parking brake released 107  STARTING AND DRIVING To release it, pull the lever up slightly (1), press the release button (2) and push

AND DRIVING To release it, pull the lever up slightly (1), press the release button (2) and push the lever down (3). Parking brakes tell- tale on the instrument cluster will turn ‘OFF’ when the lever is fully released. Apply the parking brake properly be- fore leaving the vehicle and release it before moving. Vehicle parking Park the vehicle in a safe place. Switch on the indicator signal before turning to park. e Apply the parking brake. e Ensure that all window glasses are closed and all lamps are turned ‘OFF’. e At night, put on the parking lights if required. e Remove the key from the ignition switch and lock the vehicle. e Block the wheel if parked on a slope. 108 NOTE e When parking on a downhill gradi- ent, place the gear lever in ‘Reverse’ position. While parking on uphill gradient, place the gear lever in the ‘1st’ position. e Do not use parking brake for brak- ing unless unavoidable circum- stances like when service brake is not working properly. The braking distance is

circum- stances like when service brake is not working properly. The braking distance is considerably longer and the wheels could lock. There is an increased danger of skidding and accidents. WARNING Never leave children unsupervised in the parked vehicle. They could also Operate the vehicle's equipment. There is a risk of an accident and in- Jury. Reverse Park Assist (if equipped) Reverse Park Assist system is an elec- tronic parking aid that will assist you to park your vehicle safely when in reverse gear mode. It provides audio and visual information through the vehicles info- tainment system. Always look at surrounding before initiat- ing reverse parking, for kids, pets and el- derly people moving around the vehicle. PARK ASSIST Please reverse carefully! There are 4/3 ultrasonic sensors placed on the rear bumper of the vehicle. Once the system is activated, the sensors will  detect the proximity of an obstacle from the bumper, and this information would be displayed on the

detect the proximity of an obstacle from the bumper, and this information would be displayed on the vehicles infotain- ment system. In Low variants, only audio warning shall be given through a buzzer. WARNING 0 to 25 cm obstacle detection perfor- mance is not guaranteed due to ultra- sonic sensor technology limitation. Park assist indications In case of Reverse park assist system malfunctions, the following screen may appear on the infotainment system. Reason for this fault may be a. Park Assist Controller / Body Control Module Failure" b. Sensor Malfunction c. Partner components such as Info- tainment music system, Instrument Cluster failure. Park Assist, Unknown Fault! 1 (ee ee) A Critical Fautt Park Assist System not available get it rectified by TATA dealer Reverse park assist limitations Reverse Park Assist system is not a colli- sion avoiding system. It is solely the driver’s responsibility to park the vehicle safely. Reverse Park Assist feature works on ul- tra sound echo

responsibility to park the vehicle safely. Reverse Park Assist feature works on ul- tra sound echo technology, due to which performance is not guaranteed in follow- ing scenarios: e If the object has a sharp edge sur- face, where surface may divert ech- oes from sensor reception. STARTING AND DRIVING If object is mesh fence made up of thin wires, where echoes can’t be given by the surface. Fast moving objects passes in the sensor field of detection, where ech- oes are not processed by the system. If object is made/covered by foam or sponge or snow where ultrasonic sound signals are absorbed. Objects close to the rear bumper can go undetected by the Reverse Park Assist field of detection. Driver should use extreme caution while parking the vehicle. If height of the bumper is changed due to alteration to the suspension or other causes If the sensor areas are extremely hot from direct sunlight or cold due to freezing weather. If Sensors are covered by a hand, sticker, accessory, etc. 109

or cold due to freezing weather. If Sensors are covered by a hand, sticker, accessory, etc. 109  STARTING AND DRIVING If ultrasonic noise is present around Vehicle due to other vehicle sensors, horn, engine, air braking system (large vehicles), Exhaust Fans, Wire- less transmitters or mobile phones If the vehicle speed exceeds 10 km/h, the system will not warn you even though objects are detected, er- ror message 'Vehicle Speed is high, drive slowly!' will appear. Driving on uneven road surfaces e.g. Gravel, unpaved roads, Artificial Speed Breakers, or gradient. WARNING A Due to any reason, if the sensor gets misaligned or loses its intended fit- ment position, contact your dealer for refitment. NOTE 1 Turning the ignition ‘OFF’ ‘while the Park assist feature in running would disable the feature. 10 Reverse park assist system preven- tive maintenance 1. Regularly clean the Sensors and keep them free from dust, ice, mud, water, chewing gum etc. for proper working of the system. Use a

keep them free from dust, ice, mud, water, chewing gum etc. for proper working of the system. Use a smooth cloth for cleaning. Do not use water at high pressure for cleaning the sensor. Do not cover the Sensors. This will in- terrupt park assist performance. Rear View Camera Rear View Camera is a visual reverse guiding system. When reversing or park- ing, make sure that there are no per- sons, animals or objects in the area in which you are reversing. NOTE Turning the ignition ‘OFF’ ‘while the Park assist feature in running would disable the feature. Activation e Reverse gear This System will activate, if reverse gear is engaged, or park assist button (if equipped) is pressed.  Deactivation System will deactivate, if reverse gear is disengaged, or park assist button (if equipped) is pressed Understanding Guidelines Indica- tion Green Line Indicates, if rear object is in this colored zone, you have to be cautious. Still you can go backward safely. Yellow Line Indicates, if rear objects

you have to be cautious. Still you can go backward safely. Yellow Line Indicates, if rear objects are in this col- ored zone, you have to take utmost care. However, objects fall in this zone, may not hit vehicle Red Line Indicates, if rear objects are in this col- ored zone, you have to stop the vehi- cle and not allowed to go backward. If you still go backward, your vehicle will hit the object Do’s and don’t e Do not use camera when tailgate is open. If tailgate is open, visual in- formation may not be the actual rear view of the vehicle & system will warn with message ‘Tail Gate Open, Please close. e When the camera is operated un- der fluorescent lights, sodium light or mercury light etc., illuminated ar- eas on the lens may appear to flicker in the display. e Do not attach any advertisement or styling or any kind of stickers on top of camera. If this happens, camera cannot provide you the visual im- age and may damage camera. e Do not add any accessory, which will obstruct camera

the visual im- age and may damage camera. e Do not add any accessory, which will obstruct camera field of view. STARTING AND DRIVING Cleaning camera 1. Due to environmental reasons, dust, mud or fog may accumulate on the camera lens. So regularly clean the camera lens. 2. Use water to clean the camera lens. Do not use extreme cold or hot water. Rapid changes in temperature may brittle the camera lens. Do not apply High Pressure water for cleaning. Wipe the camera lens with soft cloth. 4. Do not use hard cloth or material to wipe the camera lens. This will cause scratches on the camera, and leads to deteriorated visual image on the display. 5. Do not apply organic solvent, car wax, window cleaner or glass coat to clean the camera. If this is applied, wipe it off as soon as possible. 6. Do not apply heavy force on lens, while cleaning. 7. Do not remove mud, snow on the camera lens using stick or hard ma- terial. Use normal water and soft cloth. » 111  STARTING AND DRIVING WARNING 112

stick or hard ma- terial. Use normal water and soft cloth. » 111  STARTING AND DRIVING WARNING 112 The camera uses fish eye lens. So the size of the objects or in the display may differ from the actual size and distances In low light conditions, the screen may darken or image may appear faint. If the tire sizes are changed, the position of the fixed guidelines displayed on the screen may change. During rainy conditions, image may get obscured. In such condi- tions, do not depend on camera view. The camera used in the ve- hicle, may not reproduce the same color of the real object. In case of damage of the rear por- tion of the vehicle, camera posi- tion may change. Which causes wrong visual information on dis- play. In case of damage, make sure that, camera is fitted properly at the intended location. In case of uneven road conditions or up-hill or downhill conditions, do not depend on rear view cam- era park aid. Do not apply any kind of force on the camera. Always use rear View

on rear view cam- era park aid. Do not apply any kind of force on the camera. Always use rear View mirrors along with Rear View Camera for confirming the safety of the rear and the surrounding conditions. High humidity and variation in ambient temperature may result into condensation inside the camera lens, which may further result into degradation of camera video feed on the screen. It is rec- ommended that not to rely on camera video feed for parking as- sistance in such scenario. This phenomenon is temporary and will be automatically recovered with reduction in humidity and less variation in ambient temper- ature. The area displayed by the rear view camera is limited. The cam- era does not display objects that are close to or below the bumper, underneath the vehicle, or ob- jects out of the camera’s field of view. The area displayed on the screen may vary according to ve- hicle orientation or road condi- tions.  Rear view camera system precau- tions 1. Area displayed on screen The

or road condi- tions.  Rear view camera system precau- tions 1. Area displayed on screen The rear view camera system displays an image of the view from the bumper of the rear area of the vehicle. To adjust the image on the rear view monitor system screen. iL Corners of bumper a The area displayed on the screen may vary according to vehicle orien- tation conditions. Objects, which are close to either cor- ner of the bumper or under the bumper, cannot be seen on the screen. The camera uses a special lens. The distance of the image that appears on the screen differs from the actual distance. The monitor may not dis- play items that are located higher than the camera field of view. . When the ground behind the ve- hicle slopes up sharply STARTING AND DRIVING The distance guidelines will appear to be closer to the vehicle than the actual dis- tance. Because of this, objects will appear to be farther away than they actually are. In the same way, there will be a margin of error between the

farther away than they actually are. In the same way, there will be a margin of error between the guidelines and the actual distance/course on the road. 113  STARTING AND DRIVING 3. When the ground behind the ve- hicle slopes down sharply The distance guidelines will appear to be further from the vehicle than the actual distance. Because of this, objects will appear to be closer than they actually are. In the same way, there will be a margin of error between the guidelines and the actual distance/course on the road. 4. When any part of the vehicle sags Amargin of error When any part of the vehicle sags due to the number of passengers or the distri- bution of the load, there is a margin of error between the fixed guide lines on the screen and the actual dis- tance/course on the road. 5. When approaching three-dimen- sional objects The distance guidelines are displayed according to flat surfaced objects (such as the road). It is not possible to deter- mine the position of

to flat surfaced objects (such as the road). It is not possible to deter- mine the position of three-dimensional objects (Such as vehicles) using the dis- tance guidelines. When approaching a three-dimensional object a. Distance guidelines ©) Omik© ©) A B  Visually check the surroundings and the area behind the vehicle. On the screen, it appears that a truck is parked at point B. However, in reality if you back up to point A, you will hit the truck. On the screen, it appears that A is closest and C is furthest away. However, in reality, the distance to A and C is the same, and B is farther than A and C. STARTING AND DRIVING b. Vehicle width guidelines Visually check the surroundings and the area behind the vehicle. In the case shown below, the truck appears to be outside of the vehicle width guidelines and the vehicle does not look as if it hits the truck. However, the rear body of the truck may actually cross over the vehicle width guidelines. In reality if you back up as guided by

truck may actually cross over the vehicle width guidelines. In reality if you back up as guided by the vehicle width guide- lines, the vehicle may hit the truck. 115  116  Emergency Equipment You should be familiar with the location of the emergency equipment provided in the vehicle and how to use it. Check this equipment periodically and ensure that they are in proper working condition and stowed at their locations. First aid kit The first aid kit is kept inside the glove box compartment. The kit contains items that can be used in case of minor injuries only. NOTE —_—_—_—_—_—__—_—— Check contents of the first aid kit pe- riodically and replenish consumed or expired items. EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Tool kit and tow hook Jack Tool kit & tow hook are kept inside lug- gage compartment near spare wheel. NOTE a The tool kit should be properly stored when not in use. A scissors jack is kept inside luggage compartment near the spare wheel. NOTE a The jack should be used only to

is kept inside luggage compartment near the spare wheel. NOTE a The jack should be used only to change wheels. It is important to read the jacking instructions in this section before attempting to use the jack. 117  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Advance warning triangle An advance warning triangle is kept in the luggage compartment. Use advance warning triangle to warn the approaching traffic in case of vehicle break-down or during emergency, where your vehicle could become a potential traffic hazard. Press hazard warning switch, all turn sig- nal lamps will start blinking Keep the warning triangle at suitable dis- tance (depending on the situation) be- hind your vehicle in the same lane of traffic. The reflecting side of the triangle should face the oncoming traffic and it should be free from any obstacles. Remove the advance warning triangle carefully from the bag and assemble. Re- fer instructions given on the bag. 118 After using the warning triangle, tie it firmly and keep

Re- fer instructions given on the bag. 118 After using the warning triangle, tie it firmly and keep it inside the bag to avoid rattling noise. Hazard Warning Switch Press the hazard warning switch to acti- vate the hazard warning. All the turn sig- nal lamps will flash simultaneously. To turn OFF, press the switch again. Use the hazard warning to warn the traf- fic during emergency parking or when your vehicle could otherwise become a traffic hazard. The hazard warning lamps can operate even if the ignition is switched off.  In Case of Flat Tyre Reduce vehicle speed gradually, without making any sudden steering or braking maneuvers. Pay attention to the traffic conditions as you do so. Switch on the hazard warning lamps. Stop the vehicle on solid, non-slip- pery and level ground, as far away as possible from traffic. If possible, bring the front wheels into the straight-ahead position. Secure the vehicle against rolling away. Set the parking brake firmly and shift into “R” (Reverse)

Secure the vehicle against rolling away. Set the parking brake firmly and shift into “R” (Reverse) gear. Switch off the engine. Keep advance warning triangle at a suitable distance behind the vehicle as an indication of breakdown. Clear all passengers and luggage from the vehicle. Close all the doors. WARNING EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Spare Wheel If you drive with a flat tyre, there risk of the following hazards: e A flat tyre affects the ability to steer or brake the vehicle. e You could lose control of the vehi- cle. e Continued driving with a flat tyre will permanently damage the tyre and cause excessive heat buildup and possibly a fire. There is a risk of an accident. Spare wheel is located in the luggage compartment. To access the spare wheel, open the trunk lid, lift the carpet up and fold it. To remove the spare wheel, unscrew and remove the retaining bolt. Take out the spare wheel. 119  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Following precautions are to be taken when

the spare wheel. 119  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Following precautions are to be taken when temporary spare wheel is fitted on the vehicle. WARNING VAN e Snow chains cannot be used on the temporary spare wheel. WARNING VAN NOTE Your vehicle may exhibit some unu- sual driving characteristics when fit- ted with temporary spare wheel. e Drive the shortest possible dis- tances. The temporary spare wheel should be exchanged for a normal wheel as soon as possible. The temporary spare wheel is de- signed for a short period of use only. e “80 km/h” or “50 mph” is the max- imum speed you are permitted to drive with this tyre. Never drive faster than 80 km/h (50 mph). Do not accelerate quickly, brake suddenly or drive at high speed through bends. e After fitting the temporary spare wheel, the tyre pressure must be checked as soon as possible. e Recommended tyre pressure is 36 psi (2.5 bar) for temporary spare wheel. 120 e Never use more than one tempo- rary spare wheel. e Do not drive

for temporary spare wheel. 120 e Never use more than one tempo- rary spare wheel. e Do not drive through an automatic car wash. e Never use a temporary spare tyre if it is damaged or worn down to the tread wear indicators. e The ground clearance of your ve- hicle may be reduced. Take care when parking next to curb. e The temporary spare should not be installed on the front axle if the vehicle must be driven in snow or on ice. e Do not tow whilst the temporary spare wheel is installed.  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Wheel covers (if equipped) Insert a piece of cloth between the spokes of the wheel cover and pull it out- wards. Take out detached wheel cover from the wheel rim. When installing the cover, make sure that it is positioned so that it does not cover the air filling valve. Apply equal pressure at the circumference of the wheel cover to fix it in the wheel rim. NOTE Do not use any sharp tools (such as screw driver etc.) to remove the wheel cover. Changing flat tyre Loosen

any sharp tools (such as screw driver etc.) to remove the wheel cover. Changing flat tyre Loosen the nuts of the flat tyre in diago- nal sequence as indicated in figure. Do not remove the nuts completely before jacking the vehicle. Wheel nut removal Jacking point location on vehicle Use the respective jacking points for jacking up the vehicle. Jacking point lo- cation are shown below: Front Jack Location Jack Location Jacking point location 121  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE 180 mm Jacking the vehicle Position the jack vertically and align the “U” slot provided on jack with jacking point as shown below. Front Jack Location Front jacking Location Rear Jack Location 122 Rear jacking Location Assemble the Jack handle and wheel spanner (as shown in jacking fig.) Raise it by turning the jack handle clock- wise until the jack sits completely on jacking point and the base of the jack lies evenly on the ground.  Jacking WARNING If you do not position the jack cor- rectly at the

jack lies evenly on the ground.  Jacking WARNING If you do not position the jack cor- rectly at the appropriate jacking point of the vehicle, the jack could tip over with the vehicle raised. There is a risk of injury. Continue to raise the jack slowly and smoothly until the tyre clears the ground. Do not raise the vehicle more than nec- essary. EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Remove wheel mounting nuts with the help of wheel spanner and take out flat tyre. NOTE Do not place wheel nuts in sand or on a dirty surface. Do not apply oil or grease on it. Roll the spare wheel into position and align the holes in the wheel studs. nstall wheel nuts with their cone shaped end facing the wheel. Tighten each nut y hand until the wheel is securely seated on the hub. Lower the jack completely then tightens the wheel nuts one by one using wheel spanner. Press fit the whee equipped). Restore all the tools and jack at their respective location. cover back (if Place the flat tyre at spare wheel

the tools and jack at their respective location. cover back (if Place the flat tyre at spare wheel loca- tion. NOTE Check and correct the tyre pressure and wheel nuts tightness of the changed wheel at nearest authorised service station. Get the flat tyre repaired at the earli- est. NOTE e The jack is designed only to raise and hold the vehicle for a short time while a wheel is being changed. It is not suited for per- forming maintenance work under the vehicle. e Use the jack on level, hard ground. Avoid changing the wheel on uphill and downhill slopes. Apply wheel chokes if ve- hicle is parked on slope. 123  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE parking brake firmly and keep the gear- shift lever in neutral. Turn off all vehicle accessories, except those necessary for safety like hazard warning lamps. e Before raising the vehicle, secure it from rolling away by applying the parking brake. e Do not use wooden blocks or sim- ilar objects as a jack underlay. e Never place your hands and

e Do not use wooden blocks or sim- ilar objects as a jack underlay. e Never place your hands and feet or lie under the raised vehicle when it is supported by the jack. e Never run the engine when the vehicle is supported by the jack and never allow passengers to re- main in the vehicle. e Never open or close a door or the trunk lid when the vehicle is raised. Jump Lead Starting Use only a battery of same rating & ca- pacity to jump start your vehicle. Position the booster battery close to your vehicle so that the jump leads will reach both batteries. When using a battery of another vehicle, do not let the vehicles touch. Apply the 124 Make jump lead connections as follows: Connect the cable in numerical order & disconnect in reverse order. Unpainted Metal (Engine) part of vehicle with discharged battery Connect one end of the first jump lead to the positive (+) terminal of the discharged battery. Connect the other end to the positive (+) terminal of the booster battery. Connect one

battery. Connect the other end to the positive (+) terminal of the booster battery. Connect one end of the second jump lead to the negative (-) terminal of the booster battery. Make the final connection (other end of the negative terminal) to an un- painted, heavy metal part (i.e. engine mounting stud/nut) of the vehicle of discharged battery. Start the engine of the vehicle with the discharged battery. Before disconnecting the jumper ca- bles, let the engine run for several minutes. If the booster battery you are using is fitted to another vehicle, start the en- gine of the vehicle with the booster battery. Run the engine at moderate speed. Remove the jump leads in the exact reverse order in which you connected them. NOTE Do not disconnect the discharged battery from the vehicle.  WARNING Never connect the jump lead directly to the negative (-) terminal of the dis- charged battery. This may lead to an explosion. WARNING : « Donotallow battery electrolyte to come in contact with eyes,

may lead to an explosion. WARNING : « Donotallow battery electrolyte to come in contact with eyes, skin, fabrics or painted surfaces. The fluid contains acid which can cause injury and severe damage. Wear protective apparel. Do not inhale any battery gases. Keep children away from batteries. In case if battery acid comes in con- tact with the skin, wash it off im- mediately with water and seek medical attention. e During charging and jump-start- ing, explosive gases can escape from the battery. There is a risk of an explosion. Particularly avoid EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE fire, open flames, creating sparks and smoking. Ensure there is suf- ficient ventilation while charging and jump-starting. Do not lean over the battery. Make sure that the positive termi- nal of a connected battery does not come into con-tact with vehi- cle parts. Never place metal ob- jects or tools on a battery. It is important that you observe the described order of the bat- trey terminals when connecting

It is important that you observe the described order of the bat- trey terminals when connecting and disconnecting a battery. If you are in doubt, seek assistance from qualified specialist work- shop. Never connect or disconnect the battery terminals while the en- gine is running. Towing When towing a break down vehicle, cer- tain precautions and procedures must be taken to prevent damage to the vehi- cle and/or components. Failure to use standard towing precautionary measures when lifting or towing a break down vehicle could result in an unsafe operating condition. To ensure proper towing and to prevent accidental damage to your vehicle, take help of a TATA MOTORS authorized dealer or a commercial tow-truck ser- vice. Make sure that the parking brake is released; vehicle in neutral gear po- sition and steering wheel is unlocked. The power steering functions only when engine is running. Hence, dur- ing towing the steering efforts will be more 125  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Tow

dur- ing towing the steering efforts will be more 125  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Tow hook fitment WARNING uN . In case of break down we recommend | that your vehicle be towed with the driv- Open the trunk lid and remove tow 126 Never get under your vehicle after it has been lifted by a tow truck. For towing a vehicle, the best way is to use a wrecker. Alternatively use a rigid tow bar. Switch 'ON' the hazard warning in- dicators of both the vehicles to warn other road users. Limit the speed to 20-30 kmph. In case of brake failure, use the parking brake to control the vehi- cle. Fasten the tow rope or tow bar at the towing eyes. Otherwise, the vehicle could be damaged. When towing, pull away slowly and smoothly. If the tractive power is too high, the vehicles could be damaged. hook from the tool kit. Open the tow hook cover provided on the front bumper by pressing it at the bottom part and simultaneously pull- ing it at the top (as shown in fig). Screw in and tighten the tow

part and simultaneously pull- ing it at the top (as shown in fig). Screw in and tighten the tow hook in clockwise direction. After towing, remove the towing hook and press fit the cover properly. Place the towing hook in the vehicle tool kit. Recommended towing ing wheels off the ground or place the ve- hicle on a flatbed truck as shown. WARNING A e Never tow your vehicle with the front wheels on the ground or four wheels on the ground (for- ward or backward), as this may cause serious damage to the transmission. e When towing with the rear wheels on the ground or on towing dol- lies, place the ignition switch in the ‘ACC’ or ‘ON’ position, and se- cure the steering wheel in the straight-ahead position with a rope or similar device.  Lag Towing instructions (AMT): A) Where vehicle can be shifted in neutral condition: e Shift the gear lever into neutral. e Turn the ignition key to the “ACC” po- sition to unlock the steering wheel. e Release the parking brake. EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN

“ACC” po- sition to unlock the steering wheel. e Release the parking brake. EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE After shifting the AMT gearshift lever to the “N” position, always check the gear position indicator in the instru- ment cluster shows the “N” position to make sure that the transaxle is dis- engaged. If the transaxle cannot be put in neutral, turn the key from the “OFF” to the “ON” position, and move the AMT gearshift lever from “N” to “A”, “M” or “R”, then ack to “N” again. Then turn the key rom the “ON” to the “OFF” position. These procedures may help to put the transaxle in neutral. if the transaxle still cannot be put in neu- tral, you cannot tow the vehicle without ifting vehicle from rear side. B) Where vehicle cannot be shifted in neutral condition: e Secure the rear wheels on a towing lift and the front wheels on the towing trolley. e Apply the parking brake. WARNING : A safety chain/belt for tightening the wheels with lift should always be used when you tow your

: A safety chain/belt for tightening the wheels with lift should always be used when you tow your vehicle. Always unlock the steering wheel be- fore towing. 127  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Fuses Your vehicle has fuse boxes at three lo- cations. The vehicles electrical circuits have fuses to protect the wiring from short cir- cuits or sustained overload. 1. Battery Mounted Fuse Box. 2. Engine Compartment Fuse Box. 3. Cabin Compartment Fuse Box. 128 Checking and replacing fuses If any electrical unit in your vehicle is not functioning, check the fuses first. Please follow the steps below that will guide you to check and replace them. e Apply parking brake e Switch off all electrical consumers. e Turn the ignition key to the 'LOCK' po- sition. e Inthe fuse box, identify the defective fuse from its melted wire. OK BLOWN e Remove the blown fuse by “fuse puller”. The fuse puller and spare fuses are provided in the engine compartment fuse box. Engine compartment fuse box e Blown

spare fuses are provided in the engine compartment fuse box. Engine compartment fuse box e Blown fuses must be replaced with fuses of same rating, which you can recognize by color and value.  NOTE Always ensure that the spare fuses are replenished. Ensure that all other fuses are pressed firmly in position. If a newly inserted fuse also blows, have the cause traced and rectified at nearest TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre immediately. WARNING lf you manipulate or bridge a faulty fuse or if you replace it with a fuse with higher amperage, the electric ca- bles could be overload-ed. This could result in a fire. There is a risk of an accident and injury. Always replace faulty fuses with the specified new fuses having the cor- rect amperage. Battery mounted fuse box Battery +ve Cable From Starter Motor Battery +ve Cable From Front Fuse-Box EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Fuse Function Fuse No. Rating STARTER PF1 MOTOR CAL 1 WARNING If Fuse box cover is removed for any reason, it

Fuse No. Rating STARTER PF1 MOTOR CAL 1 WARNING If Fuse box cover is removed for any reason, it should be refitted properly at its original position. 129  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Engine compartment fuse box Fuse Puller Fuses - Engine Compartment The fuse box layout is for reference purpose only. Please refer the sticker provided inside the fuse box cover. 130 Fuse Function Fuse No. Rating INTERIOR F/B 2 1 IGNITION 60A 2 ABS 40A GLOW PLUG 3 (DIESEL) 60A COOLING FAN 4 HIGH SPEED 408 5 EPAS 60A 6 - - INTERIOR F/B 1 7 BATTERY 60A UNDER BON- 8 NET F/R BOX 60A 9 - - 10 IGNITION LOAD 60A 11 - - 12 COMPRESSOR 10A STARTER 13 SOLENOID 20A 14 ABS ECU 25A  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE 15 7 40 INJECTORS 410A 16 HORN HIGH / 415A (PETROL) LOW TONE a H/L LOW LH 10A 7 FRONT FOG 10A 22 HEAD LAMP 410A 18 | EMS BATTERY 10A LOW RH v9 | AMTHYD PUMP |, 43 EMS IGN 10A (If fitted) 44 - - 20 FUEL PUMP 20A 45 H/L LOW LH 10A 21 BRAKE LAMP 10A 46 HEAD, LAMP 410A 22 RELAY COIL 5A 23 - - FRONT

FUEL PUMP 20A 45 H/L LOW LH 10A 21 BRAKE LAMP 10A 46 HEAD, LAMP 410A 22 RELAY COIL 5A 23 - - FRONT WIPER 24 MOTOR 20A 25 ABS 5A WASHER 26 MOTOR 10A 27 - - REVERSE & 28 BRAKE LAMP 10A 29 REAR WIPER 10A 38 EMS ECU 20A 39 EMS ECU 415A Cabin compartment fuse box Cover removal procedure Fuse box is located inside the cover be- low steering column. To access the fuse box, remove cover as per procedure given below. 1. Fuse box cover is mounted on dash board with the help of lugs at the top and bottom of the cover from inside. 131  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE 2. To remove the cover, gently pull the cover from bottom side such that the lugs get disengaged. Re-fitment procedure Align and engage the top and bottom mounting lugs with respective slots on dash board and press the cover firmly. it Fuses — Tipit Wh Cabin compartment fuse box 132  Fuses - Cabin Compartment EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE CDL/ ACCES- 14 | SORY CONN.1 15A POWER 15 SOCKET 15A 16 | RELAY COILS 5A TRUNK LID 7

ASSISTANCE CDL/ ACCES- 14 | SORY CONN.1 15A POWER 15 SOCKET 15A 16 | RELAY COILS 5A TRUNK LID 7 LATCH 10A 18 HVAC TOA HEATED REAR 19 SCREEN/ | 25A/10A FLASHER 59 | MODULEKL15 | 45, uP POWER 21 | SOCKET CON- 15A SOLE TRANSIT/INFO- 22 TAINMENT 15A Fuse Fuse No. Rating RESTRAINT RE- 1 LAY 10A 2 ACC CON.2 15A TRANSIT/ INFO- 3 TAINMENT i5A 4 BCM 15A INT LAMP/ REV 5 | Lamp & BRK sw | SA/15A MIRROR AD- 8 JUST MOTOR 5A POS/PARK 7 LAMP RH/BCM SALISA 8 CLUSTER / OBD 10A 9 BCM/POSITION SAMBA LH 10 KEY IN 5A IMMOBILIZER / " EPAS 5A 12 ACC FUSE 5A BLOWER MO- 13 TOR 30A 133  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Bulb Specification Description 1 HIGH BEAM+LOW BEAM (Option 1) 12V, 55W H4 2 HIGH BEAM (Option II) 12V, 55W H1 2 2 LOW BEAM (Option II) 12V,55W H11 2 3 TURN SIGNAL FRONT 12V, W21W. W21W 2 4 FOG LAMP FRONT 12V, 19W H16 2 5 STOP + POSITION LAMP REAR 12V LED 2 6 POSITION LAMP FRONT 12V, SW W5W 2 7 TURN SIGNAL REAR 12V, PY21W PY21W 2 8 REVERSE LAMP 12V, P21W P21W 1 9 REAR REGISTRATION PLATE LAMP

TURN SIGNAL REAR 12V, PY21W PY21W 2 8 REVERSE LAMP 12V, P21W P21W 1 9 REAR REGISTRATION PLATE LAMP 12V LED 2 10 SIDE REPEATER LAMP. 12V, WYSW WY5W 2 11 ROOF LAMP 12V LED 1 12 HIGH MOUNTED STOP LAMP 12V LED 1 13 LOAD AREA LAMP 12V, WSW. W5W. 1 14 TURN SIGNAL FRONT 12V, 21W PY21W 2 15 POSITION LAMP REAR BSO. 12V LED 2 16 POSITION LAMP REAR TRUNK LID 12V LED 2 17 REAR FOG LAMP 12V, P21W P21W 1 134  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Bulb Replacement: Replacing - High / Low beam bulb 3. To free the headlamp bulb from the (Option I) 1. Remove the rubber press fit cover by simply pulling it off. socket, press and swing the retaining spring and pull it straight back. Open the bonnet to access the head- lamps. 2. Press the pin and pull the connector 4. Pull out the bulb from the socket. from the bulb. : ri WARNING The engine should not be running when changing bulbs. If the engine has been running just prior to replacing bulbs in the headlight housing, please keep in mind that components in

just prior to replacing bulbs in the headlight housing, please keep in mind that components in the en- gine compartment will be hot. 135  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE 5. 6. 1 Insert the new bulb (without touch- ing the glass) into the socket. Move the retaining spring up and push it slightly until it locks properly. Refit the connector into the bulb and press the rubber cover on headlamp housing to fit it properly. WARNING It is dangerous if a halogen bulb breaks. These bulbs contain pressur- ized gas and if broken, will explode causing serious injury by the flying glass. Halogen bulbs can break if the glass portion is touched with bare hands, body oil could cause the bulb to heat unevenly and explode when lit. Never touch the glass portion of the bulb with your bare hands and al- ways wear eye protection when han- dling or working around halogen bulbs. Always keep halogen bulbs out of the reach of children. 36 Replacing the position bulb Unlock the position bulb by turning the

of the reach of children. 36 Replacing the position bulb Unlock the position bulb by turning the socket in counter clockwise direction. Replace with the new bulb (refer bulb specification table) and refit it by press- ing and turning in clockwise direction firmly into the socket. Replacing the turn indicator Unlock the turn indicator bulb by turning the socket in counterclockwise direction. Replace with the new bulb (refer bulb specification table) and refit it by press- ing and turning it in clockwise direction firmly into the socket.  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Option Il 3. Disconnect lamp connection. 5. Remove low beam bulb. 1. Open the bonnet to access the head- lamps. 2. Remove the socket cover on the backside of the headlamp. 4. Unlock low beam bulb holder clip, 6. Refit low beam bulb by locking by pushing it backward. high beam bulb holder clip. 7 137  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE 7. Connect the connectors of low 9. Unlock position high beam bulb 10. Remove

BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE 7. Connect the connectors of low 9. Unlock position high beam bulb 10. Remove position high beam bulb beam and refit low beam lamp from its pl cover. rk 8. Disconnect motor connection (if required) & high beam lamp con- nection. 138  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE 16. Refit front direction indicator bulb by looking it in clockwise direction. 15. Unlock side indicator lock in anti- clockwise direction & remove front direction indicator bulb. 14. Refit positon bulb 139  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE 24 X 7 Road Assistance Dear Customer, It is our responsibility and our endeavor to ensure that you have our complete service backup if ever, wherever and whenever you need the same. When you have a road network that spans wide area, the probability of a breakdown happening within hailing distance of a TATA MOTORS Authorized Workshop is very low. It is precisely for this reason, we have tied up with TVS AA, who will provide breakdown assistance including towing

this reason, we have tied up with TVS AA, who will provide breakdown assistance including towing to the nearest TATA MOTORS Authorized Workshop through their Authorized Ser- vice Providers (ASP). The 24X7 On Road Assistance Program shall be automatically available to your vehicle for the duration of Warranty pe- riod. The program shall also be availa- ble, if you avail the same post warranty. 140 Response Time ** for the On Road Assistance Program Within City Lim- its 60 minutes On State or Na- tional Highways Ghat Roads and other places 90 minutes 120 minutes +/- **(The response time will depend on the location, terrain, traffic density and the ime of the day.) Standard procedure when calling for On Road Assistance in case of a breakdown: e Dial the toll free help line number - 1800 209 7979 e Identify your vehicle with the Vehicle chassis number that is available in the Owner’s Manual. Explain your exact location with land- marks and tell us about the problem you face with the

Explain your exact location with land- marks and tell us about the problem you face with the vehicle. e Park your vehicle on the edge of the road, open the bonnet and put on the hazard warning signal. e Place the advance warning triangle supplied with the vehicle approx. 3m from the vehicle in the direction of oncoming traffic. TATA MOTORS | SERVICE RESPONSIVE 24x7 ON-ROAD ASSISTANCE 1800 209 7979 Coverage under 24 X 7 On Road As- sistance Program |. The 24x7 On Road Assistance Pro- gram Service covers the following ser- vices on your vehicle during warranty pe- riod.  Wheel change through spare wheel. Arrangement of fuel. (Fuel cost will be chargeable at actual cost) Re-opening the vehicle in cases of key lock out. Rectification of electrical problems related to battery, fuses etc. On spot repairs for complaints repair- able at site. “ Vehicle to vehicle towing or winching & towing for non-accident cases up to the nearest TATA MOTORS author- ized workshop. Towing charges at ac- tual

non-accident cases up to the nearest TATA MOTORS author- ized workshop. Towing charges at ac- tual cost beyond the same to be paid to the ASP in cash. (Any ferry or toll charges levied in relation to the vehi- cle being towed to be paid by the cus- tomers in actuals in cash). For accident cases, towing charges to be borne by the customer. ll. The 24x7 On Road Assistance Pro- gram coverage on availing the 24X7 pol- icy, post warranty is up to maximum of 6 instance of assistance in one year for EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE both the plans- Basic and Premium. In the premium plan, this includes 2 in- stances of towing up to the nearest TATA MOTORS authorised workshop. Exclusions 24 X 7 On Road Assistance Program does not apply to Cost of parts consumables and la- bour for such repairs not covered un- der warranty*. These charges are to be settled with ASP in cash. Toll or ferry charges paid by ASP in reaching to the breakdown site to be settled with ASP in actuals in cash. Cases

paid by ASP in reaching to the breakdown site to be settled with ASP in actuals in cash. Cases involving accident, fire, theft, vandalism, riots, lightening, earth quake, windstorm, hail, tsunami, un- usual weather conditions, other acts of God, flood, etc. Vehicles that are unattended, un-reg- istered, impounded or abandoned. Breakdown/defects caused by mis- use, abuse, negligence, alterations or modifications made to the vehicle. Lack of maintenance as per the maintenance schedule as detailed in the owner’s manual. Cases involving racing, rallies, vehi- cle testing or practice for such events. Disclaimer The Service is not available in Lak- shadweep. **The reach time is indicative & the actual reach time will be conveyed by the call centre at the time of break- down call. The reach time can vary depending on the traffic density & time of the day. The reach time indicated does not account for delays due to but not lim- ited to acts of God, laws, rules & reg- ulations for time being

for delays due to but not lim- ited to acts of God, laws, rules & reg- ulations for time being in force, or- ders of statutory or Govt. authorities, industrial disputes, inclement weather, heavy down pour, floods, storms, natural calamities, road blocks due to accidents, general 141  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE strife and law & order conditions viz. fire, arson, riots, strikes, terrorist at- tacks, war etc. “ On spot repairs at breakdown site shall depend on nature of com- plaints & will be as per the discretion of the ASP. *The decision for free of charge re- pairs will be as per the warranty pol- icy & procedures of TATA MOTORS LTD. and as per the interpretation of the same by ASP. You will be duly in- formed by the ASP & call centre for the change applicable if any. All charges wherever applicable need to be settled directly with the ASP. Exclusion of Liabilities It is understood that TATA MOTORS shall be under no liability whatsoever in respect of any loss or damage aris-

that TATA MOTORS shall be under no liability whatsoever in respect of any loss or damage aris- ing directly or indirectly out of any de- lay in or non-delivery of, defect/defi- ciency in service/parts provided by ASP. 142 In case vehicle cannot be repaired on-site, customers are advised to use the towing facility for taking their vehicle to the nearest TATA MOTORS authorized workshop only. In no con- dition will the vehicle be towed to any unauthorized workshop. TATA MO- TORS will not be responsible for any repairs carried out in such unauthor- ized workshop. Customer are advised to take ac- knowledgment from the ASP for the list of accessories/extra fittings and other belongings in the vehicle as well as the current condition related to dents/scratches breakages of parts/fitments of the vehicle at the time of ASP taking possession of the vehicle & to verify these items when delivery is taken back by them, claim for loss of or damage to items, if any should be taken up with ASP

is taken back by them, claim for loss of or damage to items, if any should be taken up with ASP directly. TATA MOTORS shall not be responsi- ble for any such claims, dam- ages/loss or any deficiency of ser- vice of the ASP. Vehicles will be handled, repaired & towed as per the customer’s risk & TATA MOTORS shall not be liable for any damages / claims as a result of the same. Services entitled to the customers can be refused or cancelled on ac- count of abusive behavior, fraudu- lent representation, malicious intent and refusal to pay the charges for any charges related services and spare parts during service or on pre- vious occasion on part of the cus- tomer. On site repairs may be temporary in nature. The completion of repairs does not certify the road worthiness of the vehicle. The customer is ad- vised to ensure temporary repairs carried out onsite is followed by per- manent repairs at a TATA MOTORS Authorized Workshop at the earliest. Terms and conditions and service coverage,

at a TATA MOTORS Authorized Workshop at the earliest. Terms and conditions and service coverage, exclusions etc. are subject to change without notice.  Vehicle Tracking System (VTS) Vehicle Tracking System (VTS) is an Elec- tronic device fitted inside every Passen- ger vehicle (with Yellow plate registration used for commercial purpose), which op- erates as a Taxi / Fleet for carrying pas- sengers. As per Govt. of India regulations (AIS: 140), it is mandatory to fit VTS in all above-mentioned vehicles registered on or after 1st Jan. 2019. Purpose: a) Efficient management of Transport System in the country. b) To provide quick response & help in case of emergencies like accidents. c) Government servers may also moni- tor driver’s rash / negligent driving behavior. EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Please ensure that the VTS sys- tem is functional in the vehicle at all times otherwise, it will lead to violation of regulation. Any tampering, disconnection or bypassing of VTS system will

will lead to violation of regulation. Any tampering, disconnection or bypassing of VTS system will send the alerts to Government servers. Customers may be liable for legal action for any such incidents. Government servers may also monitor driver’s rash / negligent driving behavior. The emergency switches are provided in- side the vehicles. It shall be press by the driver or any occupant in emergency like accidents, medical emergencies & or Law & order situations. If the occupant feels threatened or unsafe, then also this can be used NOTE e After pressing the Emergency Switch, Police or Law enforcing agencies may track and intercept the vehicle. The occupants should be able to justify the usage of Emergency Switch to them. 143  EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE NOTE After pressing switch, SOS (Safety Overflow Switch) symbol is not blinking; there is some fault in the system that needs to be rectified. Please contact your nearest Tata Motors Authorised Service Center for rectification

be rectified. Please contact your nearest Tata Motors Authorised Service Center for rectification Operation: a) b) Ignition ON & switch not pressed: During normal Ignition ON, the ‘SOS’ symbol on switch will flash continu- ously as 0.1 Seconds ON -—4 Sec- onds OFF - 0.1 Seconds ON- 4 Sec- onds OFF - -When Ignition is turn OFF, itwillswitch OFF after some time. Switch pressed In emergency, lift the flap and gently press the SOS symbol on switch for 0.5 seconds. The ‘SOS’ symbol on switch will flash continuously as Seconds ON - 0.5 Seconds OFF - -0.5 Seconds ON - 0.5 Seconds OFF-—- 144 NOTE The flashing will continue until the authorized emergency ser- vices attend to the request and re-set the VTS system. If the Igni- tion is turn OFF, then also the SOS symbol will keep on Flashing. Please note that Emergency Switches also work when Ignition is Turned OFF. After pressing the switch, SOS symbol will start flashing in above frequency. If the SOS symbol inside Switch is not blinking even

symbol will start flashing in above frequency. If the SOS symbol inside Switch is not blinking even when Ignition is ON, please check if your data plan is expired. If data plan is active and still the SOS symbol is not blinking, contact your nearest Tata Motors Authorised Service Center immediately to get this fixed. c) Un-intended Pressing of Emer- gency Switch: To avoid un-intentional pressing of Emergency Switch, the flap is provide on switch. However, if any occupant presses the emergency switch by mistake, the emergency switch will keep on flashing until it is re-set by emergency response server. The Government agencies like Traffic Management & Police after verifying the incident with the owner/driver of the vehicle will re-set the switch. Tata Motors or its dealers will not be able to re-set the system if Emer- gency Switch is press un-intention- ally.  Location of Switches: Lie For rear Passenger (LHS) EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Activation of VTS System: Your dealer

For rear Passenger (LHS) EMERGENCY AND BREAKDOWN ASSISTANCE Activation of VTS System: Your dealer will help in activating the de- vice when it is install in the vehicle. If ac- tivation is not done, SOS symbol inside the switch will not flash. If despite activation if SOS symbol inside emergency switch is not blinking, con- tact your nearest Tata Motors Authorised Service Center for rectification. Re-charging of Data Plan: The VTS system come with pre-loaded data for 6 Months / 12 Months/24 months from the date of purchase of ve- hicle. After the data is consumed or after completion of bundled data period, the SIM needs to be re-charged. Your net- work operator will inform you about the data consumption & re-charging due dates. Re-charge can be done by: a) At Tata Motors Authorised Service Center. b) By logging onto the network provider portal. For any support or further info, please contact your nearest Tata Motors Au- thorised Service Center. NOTE e The VTS consumes battery even

contact your nearest Tata Motors Au- thorised Service Center. NOTE e The VTS consumes battery even when the Ignition is OFF. If the vehi- cle is park or not use for more than 10 days, it is advisable to start the engine and keep the engine run- ning at 3000 rpm for at least 30 minutes for re-charging the battery. e Always keep the Ignition in OFF po- sition when vehicle is park or not being driven. WARNING A Warranty may be void in case: e Customerinstalls any other device/ accessories, which are not author- ised by Tata Motors. Additional ac- cessoriesmayleadto overloading of ElectricalSystem inside vehicle and may reduce battery performance. e Any tampering of the VTS device, Emergency Switches or it’s wiring harness. 145  146  Maintenance and Service Periodic maintenance is essential for en- suring long trouble free performance. Have your vehicle serviced regularly from TATA MOTORS Authorized Service Centre. There is a large network of TATA MO- TORS Authorized Service Centre’s to

Authorized Service Centre. There is a large network of TATA MO- TORS Authorized Service Centre’s to help you with their professional servicing expertise. Scheduled maintenance infor- mation is provided which makes tracking routine service easy. The following checks can be carried out between the recommended scheduled maintenance services. Take help of our authorized service centre for assistance. e Engine oil level e Engine coolant level e Brake fluid level e Washer fluid level checking & top- ping up e Battery electrolyte level e Tyre inflation pressure spare wheel NOTE Refer “Opening and Closing” section for engine bonnet opening. including MAINTENANCE WARNING : e Be careful not to touch a hot en- gine, exhaust manifold and pipes, muffler, radiator and wa- ter hoses. e Donot work on a vehicle with the engine running in an enclosed space, unless you are sure you have enough ventilation. e Keep all open flames and other burning material (such as ciga- rettes) away from the battery and

e Keep all open flames and other burning material (such as ciga- rettes) away from the battery and all fuel related parts. e If you need to do any work inside the engine compartment, e Switch off the ignition e Never reach into the area where there is a risk of danger from moving components, such as the fan rotation area. e Keep clothing away from moving parts. 147  MAINTENANCE Engine Compartment — Diesel 1. Brake fluid reservoir 4. Windshield washer container 7. Battery 2. Dip Stick - Engine Oil 5. Air Filter 8. Auxiliary tank 3. Engine oil filling cap 6. Fuse & relay box 148  MAINTENANCE Engine Compartment — Petrol (MT) 1. Dip Stick - Engine Oil 4. Windshield washer container 7. Battery 2. Brake fluid reservoir 5. Air Filter 8. Auxiliary tank 3. Engine oil filling cap 6. Fuse & relay box 149  MAINTENANCE Engine Compartment — Petrol (AMT) 1. Dip Stick - Engine Oil 4. Windshield washer container 7. Battery 2. Brake fluid reservoir 5. Air Filter 8. AMT oil reservoir 3. Engine oil

container 7. Battery 2. Brake fluid reservoir 5. Air Filter 8. AMT oil reservoir 3. Engine oil filling cap 6. Fuse & relay box 9. Auxiliary tank 150  Engine Oil Level Warm up the engine to normal operating temperature. Turn it ‘OFF’ and wait for 5 minutes for the oil to return to the oil pan. Be sure the vehicle is on a level surface. Take out the dipstick, wipe it clean, and reinsert if fully. Pull it out again and ex- amine the oil level. It should be between ‘MIN’ and ‘MAX’ level. If not, top up with recommended engine oil. The oil consumption depends up-on the driving style and the conditions under which the vehicle is used. yy Diesel TP Petrol A-MIN B- MAX A-MIN B- MAX MAINTENANCE * Donot remove the filler cap when the engine is running. * Do not add oil above than the MAX. mark. Oil level above the MAX. mark may cause engine damage. For location of Engine oil filling cap and dip stick, please refer respective Engine Compartment pages. 151  MAINTENANCE Brake Fluid Level The level

please refer respective Engine Compartment pages. 151  MAINTENANCE Brake Fluid Level The level of the brake fluid should be be- tween the ‘MIN’ and ‘MAX’ marks on the side of the brake fluid container. If the level falls below the ‘MIN’ mark, add rec- ommended brake fluid. a Do not allow brake fluid to make con- tact with the skin or eyes. Do not allow brake fluid to splash or spill on the paint surface as it will 152 For location of Brake Fluid Container and filling cap, please refer respective Engine Compartment pages. Engine Coolant Level Check whether the coolant level is be- tween the ‘MIN’ and ‘MAX’ marks on the coolant reservoir. When the coolant levels is low, top up with recommended coolant through filler of auxiliary tank until the level ap- proaches the max level line. Refer ‘Tech- nical information’ section. In case of emergency, a large amount of water without engine cool- ant may be added in order to reach a vehicle service location. Whenever coolant has been added, the

ant may be added in order to reach a vehicle service location. Whenever coolant has been added, the coolant level in the coolant reservoir should be checked the next few times you drive the vehicle to confirm correct level. For location of Engine coolant con- tainer and filler cap, please refer re- spective Engine Compartment pages. NOTE Topping of the coolant should be done in the auxiliary tank only.  ommended coolant is used. Mixing of different coolants may harm your en- gine’s cooling system and its compo- nents. Do not add extra inhibitors or ad- ditives to the coolant. These can be harmful and compromise the corrosion protection of the engine coolant. WARNING The engine cooling system is pressur- ized, particularly when the engine is warm. When opening the cap, you could be scalded by hot coolant spraying out. There is a risk of injury. Let the engine cool down before opening the cap. Wear eye and hand protection when opening the cap. Open the cap slowly half a turn to al- low

cap. Wear eye and hand protection when opening the cap. Open the cap slowly half a turn to al- low pressure to escape. The level of the AMT oil reservoir level should be between the ‘MIN’ and ‘MAX’ marks on the side of the container. If the level falls below the ‘MIN’ mark, add rec- ommended oil. MAINTENANCE Make sure that only TATA MOTORS rec- Checking AMT oil reservoir level Windshield Washer Fluid Level Check that there is washer fluid in the tank. Refill it if necessary. Use a good quality windshield washer fluid, diluted with water as necessary. NOTE ¢ Donot use detergent or any other additive in the windshield washer reservoir. This can severely im- pair visibility when sprayed on the windshield, and can damage your vehicle’s paint. ¢ Do not operate washer motor with no fluid in washer tank, washer motor will be damaged For location of Windshield Washer Container and filling cap, please refer respective Engine Compartment Pages. 153  MAINTENANCE Battery Check the battery for

please refer respective Engine Compartment Pages. 153  MAINTENANCE Battery Check the battery for electrolyte level against the marking on the battery outer case. Check the battery terminals for cor- rosion (a white or yellowish powder). To remove it, wash the terminals with a solution of baking soda. It will bub- ble up and turn brown. When this stops, wash it off with plain water. Dry off the battery with a cloth or paper towel. Coat the terminals with petroleum jelly to prevent future corrosion. Use a proper wrench to loosen and remove cables from the terminals. Always disconnect the negative (-ve) cable first and reconnect it last. Clean the battery terminals with a terminal cleaning tool or wire brush. Reconnect and tighten the cables, coat the terminals with petroleum jelly. 154 e Ensure that the battery is securely mounted. e If you need to connect the battery to a charger, disconnect both cables to prevent damage to the _ vehicle’s electrical system. For location of battery,

both cables to prevent damage to the _ vehicle’s electrical system. For location of battery, please refer respective Engine Compartment pages NOTE During normal operation, the bat- tery generates gas, which is ex- plosive in nature. A spark or open flame can cause the battery to explode causing very serious inju- ries. Keep all sparks, open flames and smoking materials away from the battery. The battery contains sulphuric acid (electrolyte) which is poi- sonous and highly corrosive in nature. Getting electrolyte in your eyes or on the skin can cause se- vere burns. Wear protective clothing and a face shield or have a skilled technician to do the bat- tery maintenance.  Spark Plug (Petrol) Spark Plug Number Gap BOSCH yr7ses_ | 27 to 0.8 mm Federal Mogul RER8MC | 0.8 to (Champion) 0.9mm Tightening Torque - 25 Nm a Use spark plug of recommended make & type for replacement. 1 UNDER INFLATION CORRECT 3 OVER INFLATION OY & Under inflation 2 Correct tyre pressure 3. | Over inflation

INFLATION CORRECT 3 OVER INFLATION OY & Under inflation 2 Correct tyre pressure 3. | Over inflation Excessive side tread wear Uniform wear Excessive center tread wear MAINTENANCE Inflation Check for inflation and condition of your vehicle tyres periodically. Check the pressure in the tyres when they are cold. Keeping the tyres properly inflated gives you the best combination of riding com- fort, handling, tyre life and better fuel ef- ficiency. Over inflation of tyres makes the vehicle ride bumpy and harsh. Tyres are more prone to uneven wear and damage from road hazards. Under inflated tyres reduce your comfort in vehicle handling and are prone to fail- ures due to high temperature. They also cause uneven wear and more fuel con- sumption. Every time you check inflation pres- sure, you should also examine tyres for damage, trapping of foreign objects in the treads and wear. 155  MAINTENANCE Recommended tyre pressures Special care for tubeless tyres: Tyre pressure 33 psi Front | (9.3

Recommended tyre pressures Special care for tubeless tyres: Tyre pressure 33 psi Front | (9.3 bar) Petrol 30 psi Rear | (2.4 bar) 36 psi 175/65 Spare R14 & (2.5 bar) 155/80 33-36 psi R13 Front (2.3 -2.5 bar) Diesel 30 psi Rear | (2.4 bar) 36 psi Spare | (2.5 bar) 36 psi Front | (95 bar) 175/60 36 psi R15 Petrol | Rear | 8 bar) 36 psi Spare | (2.5 bar) 156 Tyre pressure sticker location e Maintain tyre inflation pres- sure as per the specific men- tioned in tyre pressure sticker e Regular tyre and spare tyre to be checked for correct tyre in- flation pressure at least once a month While removing tyre from wheel rim and mounting it back on wheel rim, take precautions not to damage tyre ead. Use tyre removal and assem- ly machines. Damage or cut on tyre ead may cause gradual loss of air and deflation of tyre. Do not scratch inside of tubeless tyre with metallic or sharp object. Tube- less tyres are coated with impermea- le layer of rubber from inside which olds the air inside the tyre.

tyres are coated with impermea- le layer of rubber from inside which olds the air inside the tyre. Removal of this layer due to scratching may cause gradual loss of air and defla- tion. If wheel rim gets damaged in service, get the wheel rim repaired/ replaced immediately. Running the vehicle with damaged rim may cause defla- tion of tyre and subsequent dislodg- ing of tyre from rim.  e Maintain recommended _ inflation pressure. Over-inflation, in particu- lar, may cause puncture or bursting of tyre. NOTE Life and wear pattern of tyres de- pends on various parameters like tyre pressure, wheel alignment, wheel balancing, tyre rotation, etc. It also largely depends on vehicle speed, load carried, usage, driving habits, road conditions, tyre quality, etc. In case fault is suspected to be due to poor quality of tyres, the same may be taken up with concerned tyre manufacturer. Tyre rotation To help increase tyre life and distribute wear more evenly you should have tyres rotated at

To help increase tyre life and distribute wear more evenly you should have tyres rotated at specified intervals or earlier depending on the operation of vehicle. The illustrations show how to rotate tyres when normal or temporary spare wheel is fitted. For 155/80 R13 tyres MAINTENANCE For 175/65 R14 and 175/60 R15 tyres with temporary spare wheel (if equipped) SPARE WHEEL WITH STEEL WHEEL RIM NOTE e Donotuse spare wheel for tyre ro- tation, in case of temporary spare wheel used. e Two or more temporary tyres should not be used on one vehi- cle. e Tyre pressure of temporary wheel is to be checked at least once in in a month. 157  MAINTENANCE Wheel Alignment Incorrect wheel alignment causes exces- sive and uneven tyre wear. Check whee alignment at specified intervals. Whee alignment values are given below: Caster 1° 45’ + 45° - Camber 30’ + 30’ - 52’ + 60’ Toe in - 12'+15' Toe Out 0 to 13’ - 158 Wheel Balancing Wheels of your vehicle are balanced for better ride comfort and longer tyre

- 158 Wheel Balancing Wheels of your vehicle are balanced for better ride comfort and longer tyre life. Balancing needs to be done whenever tyre is removed from rim. WARNING : If the vehicle vibrates abnormally on a smooth road, have the wheel bal- anced done immediately. Remote Key Battery Replacement Remote control key contains a battery which is housed under the cover. If red LED remote flashes for 5 times af- ter placing and releasing any button on remote. It is recommended to replace battery at a TATA MOTORS Authorised Service Centre. You should, however, proceed as follows if you wish to replace the discharged bat- tery yourself: 1. Open the key blade. 2. Press off the battery cover with your thumb or using a flat screw driver at the points of the arrows. 3. Remove the discharged battery from the key by pressing the battery down- wards at the point of the arrow.  4. Insert the new battery. 5. Ensure that the “+” symbol on the battery is facing upwards. The cor- rect polarity is

battery. 5. Ensure that the “+” symbol on the battery is facing upwards. The cor- rect polarity is shown on the battery cover. 6. Position the battery cover on the key and press on it until it is heard to lock in place. Use CR 2032 battery only. On Board Diagnostic (OBD Il) System On board Diagnostics or OBD is an auto- motive term referring to a vehicle’s self- diagnostic and reporting capability. The OBD system allows continuous diagno- sis of the components of the vehicle cor- related with emissions. This system warns the driver, by turning “ON” the Malfunction Indication lamp (MIL) on the instrument cluster, when a fault causes emission levels to increase. MAINTENANCE The OBD system also has a diagnostic connector that can be interfaced with appropriate diagnostic tools, which makes it possible to read the fault codes stored in the Electronic Control Unit, to- gether with a series of specific parame- ters for Engine operation and Diagnosis. This check can also be carried out by

of specific parame- ters for Engine operation and Diagnosis. This check can also be carried out by the traffic police. To access the diagnostic connector, open the fuse box cover which is located on RH side below the steering wheel. Re- fer ‘Emergency and Breakdown Assis- tance’ section for removal of cover.  MAINTENANCE Service Instructions The TATA TIGOR has been manufactured to give you econom- ical and trouble free performance. To achieve this, please fol- low the instructions as stated. Your vehicle is entitled to three free services (labour only). The free service coupons are attached to the sales invoice. Please present these coupons to the servicing dealer while availing free services. 1st free service - At 1000-2000 kms. OR 2 months, whichever is earlier. 2nd free service - At 7000-8000 kms. OR 6 months, whichever is earlier. 3rd free service - At 14500-15500 kms. OR 12 months, which- ever is earlier. All services other than free services are chargeable. 160 Servicing of the

which- ever is earlier. All services other than free services are chargeable. 160 Servicing of the vehicle can be done at any TATA MOTORS Authorised Dealer Workshop or TATA MOTORS Authorised Service Centre (TASC). Warranty claims can be settled by any TATA MOTORS Author- ised Dealer Workshop or TATA MOTORS Authorised Service Centre (TASC).  Service Schedule Operation MAINTENANCE General Wash the vehicle 1 & Clean Con- denser Fins Every Service Check & Top up Fluids (If re- quired): Trans- axle Oil, Coolant, Brake Fluid, Bat- tery Electrolyte, Wind Screen washer fluid. Every Service Check Fuel 3 Lines for Leak- ages. Every Service Check and Cap- ture all DTC's 4 | Clear all faults and Erase the Codes. Every Service Check Rubber Boots for dam- 5 | age & replace if required (driveshaft) 15K / 12M # - Kms or Months whichever occurs earlier 161  MAINTENANCE Operation Check Rubber Boots, Rubber seat, Dust cover & Bushes for damage & re- place if required (Suspension) (First at 15K/12M then

seat, Dust cover & Bushes for damage & re- place if required (Suspension) (First at 15K/12M then at every service) 7.5K | 6M Check for all 7 | bolts & nuts (Tighten) 7.5K | 6M Engine (Diesel) Clean air filter el- ement (more fre- 1 | quently for vehi- cle operating as TAXI) 18K / 12M Change engine oil and Oil filter 18K / 12M Drain water from Fuel Filter Bowl 18K / 12M Replace Fuel Pre filter assem- bly (WIF Sensor to be reused) #45K/ 24M Replace Fuel 5 | Main fuel filter assembly # 135K / 24M # - Kms or Months whichever occurs earlier 162  Operation Replace Diesel- | 4 754, 6 | Pressure Regu- |" 364) . . lator Check accessory belt condition vis- | 15K/ ually, replace if | 12M found damage Check timing belt visual condition, }f 105K / replace if found | 24M damage Replace air filter element (more 9 | frequently for ve- oul . . . hicle operating as TAXI) #60K/ 10 | Change coolant |" 3544 . . Replace _ timing drive kit (Timing }# 150K / belt, Auto ten- | 36M sioner and Idler) # - Kms or

. . Replace _ timing drive kit (Timing }# 150K / belt, Auto ten- | 36M sioner and Idler) # - Kms or Months whichever occurs earlier 163  MAINTENANCE Operation Engine (Petrol) Clean air filter el- ement (more fre- 1 | quent for veni- | 15K! cle operating as TAXI) | Change engine | 15K/ oil and Oil filter | 12M 3 | Gasoline-Re- | 75K/ place Fuel Filter | 60M 4 | Change Spark | 45K / plugs 36M Check accessory 5 | beltcondition vis- | 18K/ ually, replace if | 12M found damage Replace air filter element (more 6 | frequently for ve- | 45K/ ; ve" | 36M hicle operating as TAXI) Change coolant 7 | (60K/36m , #60K/ whichever 36M comes early) # - Kms or Months whichever occurs earlier 164  Operation Transaxle 1 | Replace trans- 75K / . . axle oil 60M Check AMT Kit ofl level, it should be in between min. & Max. level when | Every 2 the vehicle is in | Ser- . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . standstill and vice ignition ON condi- tion. Top up AMT kit oil if necessary. Brakes Check front

. standstill and vice ignition ON condi- tion. Top up AMT kit oil if necessary. Brakes Check front brake pads & 1 | rear brake lin- 15K . . . . . . . . . . ' 12M ings. Replace if necessary Replace brake fluid Check 2 | brake system #45K) . . . 24M components for Leakages Inspect & if nec- 3 | essary adjust 15K/ handbrake set- 12M ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ting # - Kms or Months whichever occurs earlier 165  MAINTENANCE Operation Wheels & Tyres factory perfor- mance 1 | Check & Adjust [#15K7 Wheel alignment | 18M Check for Tyre 2 | pressure, condi |* 7"/ tion & rotate Electrical Check specific 4 | gravity of battery | Every electrolyte (OR _| Service Every 6 Months) > | Check headlamp | 15k / focussing 12M AC. System Clean filter and check Air-condi- 1 | tioning HVAC | Every system for satis- | Service # - Kms or Months whichever occurs earlier 166  Vehicle Parking at One Place for Long Duration (Non - Use Maintenance) If you want to park your vehicle at one place for long duration,

Duration (Non - Use Maintenance) If you want to park your vehicle at one place for long duration, following care is to be taken: 1. ™ Park the vehicle in covered, dry and if possible well-ventilated premises. Engage a gear. Remove the battery terminal cables (first remove the cable from the neg- ative terminal). Block the wheel or engage in the gear mode. Clean and protect the painted parts using protective wax. Clean and protect the shiny metal parts using commercially available special compounds. Sprinkle talcum powder on the rub- ber windscreen wiper and lift them off the glass. Slightly open the windows. Cover the vehicle with a cloth or per- forated plastic sheet. Do not use 10. 11. sheets of imperforated plastic as they do not allow moisture on the ve- hicle body to evaporate. Inflate the tyres to 0.5 bar above the normal specified pressure and check it at regular intervals. Check the battery charge every six weeks. Do not drain the engine cooling sys- tem. MAINTENANCE 167  168

the battery charge every six weeks. Do not drain the engine cooling sys- tem. MAINTENANCE 167  168  Fuel Specification Fuel (Diesel) Normal grade BS IV compliant diesel conforming to IS1460 or EN 590 or equivalent is recommended to be used as fuel. Do not use premium diesel available in the market for exam- ple extra premium / Turbojet etc. Recommended fuel specifications Parameter BS IV Cetane Number (min) CN 51 Sulphur content mg/kg 50 Lubricity (HFRR) micron 460 Where oxidation catalytic converter is fitted, it is manda- tory to use Diesel fuel with Sulphur contents as given above. Use of any other diesel fuel can increase the pol- lutants. At very low temperature, fluidity of diesel may become insuffi- cient due to paraffin separation. It is therefore necessary to mix supplementary fuel with summer or winter grade diesel. TECHNICAL INFORMATION The supplementary fuel to be used like kerosene. Ratio for mix- ing of supplementary fuel and diesel are shown in the table. Percentage

kerosene. Ratio for mix- ing of supplementary fuel and diesel are shown in the table. Percentage Ambient Tempera- Summer grade t to Deg C. OUT) LO PL) diesel Up to0 0 0 to-10 70 30 -10 to -15 50 50 Care should be taken that diesel and supplementary fuel are thoroughly mixed before filling. P t Ambient Temper- elLcentags, ature upto Deg C, nter g Supplementary diesel fuel Up to-15 100 0 -15 to -20 70 30 -20 and below 50 50 WARNING Do not mix gasoline or alcohol with diesel. This mixture can cause an explosion. 169  TECHNICAL INFORMATION Fuel (Petrol) Unleaded regular grade petrol conforming to IS 2796:2008 and BS IV specification and RON not less than 91 is recommended. It is always recommended to use correct fuel to get optimum emission performance. NOTE Se Always use petrol of a correct specification in a vehicle fit- ted with catalytic converter. Even single fill of leaded petrol will seriously damage the catalytic converter.  TECHNICAL INFORMATION Lubricant Specification Use

will seriously damage the catalytic converter.  TECHNICAL INFORMATION Lubricant Specification Use following genuine fluids, coolants and lubricants recommended for optimum performance of your vehicle. Specification Company CASTROL Magnatec Professional T 5W30 5W30 ACEA EXXON MOBIL Mobil super 3000 TMGO 5W 30 Tata motors Petrol -3.5L Engine Oil A5/B5 TATA genuine oil Diesel - 4.5L SS6576 — reser PETRONAS TATA MOTORS GENUINE OIL - Engine Oil synth 5w30 Coolant (Pre- Sunstar CCI Gloden Cruiser LLC2200NP mixed) (Anti- Class II/JIS Petrol - 5.5L freeze agent | K2234 TATA | casTROL Castrol Radicoolant SFO Premix Diesel - 6.5L + Soft water $S7700S1 . 40 : 60 ratio) 1OCL TATA MOTORS GENUINE COOLANT KOOL PLUS TATA MOTORS Genuine Oil - Gear Oil New PETRONAS Gen 80 EP LL EP80W LL Transaxle Oil (Next Gen) 1OCL TATA MOTORS GENUINE GEAR OIL 8OWLL 1.8 Liters TATA SS6582 CASTROL Transmax Manual T 80W 171  TECHNICAL INFORMATION Specification Company PETRONAS TATA MOTORS Genuine Brake Oil PETRONAS DOT

TECHNICAL INFORMATION Specification Company PETRONAS TATA MOTORS Genuine Brake Oil PETRONAS DOT 4S Brake Fluid/Clutch see Sunstar CCI Golden Cruiser Tata Genuine Brake Fluid As required fluid (DOT4) CASTROL CASTROL-Universal Brake Fluid DOT 4 Refrigerant R-134a MAHLE - 500 gms Compressor Oil ND-8 MAHLE - 120 ml AMT Kit oil Hydraulic Oil PETRONAS TUTELA Cs - Speed As required NOTE TT Check AMT Kit oil level at every service, it should be in between min. & max. level when the vehicle is in standstill and ignition ON condition. Top up AMT kit oil if necessary.”  TECHNICAL INFORMATION Technical Specifications Parameter Diesel | Petrol Engine Model/type 1.05 CRAIL Turbocharger Intercooled Diesel 1.2 REVOTRON Capacity 1047 cc 1199 CC Max. Engine output 51.5 kw (70 ps) @ 4500 rpm 62.5 kw (85 ps) @ 6000 rpm Max. Torque 140 Nm @ 1800 to 3000 rpm 114.4 Nm @ 3500 +/-70 rpm Clutch Type Single plate dry friction diaphragm type Outside diameter of 200 mm clutch Transaxle Model TA-65" 5/3.83 (6

dry friction diaphragm type Outside diameter of 200 mm clutch Transaxle Model TA-65" 5/3.83 (6 speed) with overdrive TA-65* 5/3.64 (5 speed) with overdrive manual manual Type Synchromesh on all forward gears and sliding mesh on reverse gear No. of gears 5-Forward, 1-Reverse 173  TECHNICAL INFORMATION Parameter | Diesel Petrol Steering Type Electrical Power assist Steering, Rack & Pinion Gear, Collapsible Steering Column Brakes Brakes Front (Disc); Rear (Drum) Parking brake Cable Operated Mechanical (Variable Lever Ratio) Suspension Type Independent Shock absorber Hydraulic Shock absorber Wheels & tyre Tyres 2.175/65 R14 82T Tubeless (XM, XM(O),XT, XT(O), XTA) , , XT(O), XZ, XZ(O), XZ+ 3. 175/60 R15 Tubeless (XZ, XZ(O), XZ+, XZA) 1.4.5JX13" Steel Wheel Rim (XE, XE(O)) 3 ea eee wee "Rim XM, XM(O) XT, F 2.5J X 14" Steel Wheel Rim (XM, XM(O), XT, Wheel rims XT(O), 3 Soox 5" Alloy Wheel Rim (XZ, XZ(O), XZ+ 3.5J X 14" Alloy Wheel Rim (XZ, XZ(O), XZ+) 'XxZA) , , , Suspension Type 35 liters

(XZ, XZ(O), XZ+ 3.5J X 14" Alloy Wheel Rim (XZ, XZ(O), XZ+) 'XxZA) , , , Suspension Type 35 liters 174  TECHNICAL INFORMATION Parameter Cab / body Diesel Petrol Type Semi-mono volume, 4 doors sedan, steel monocoque body. Electrical system System voltage 12 Volts (-ve earth) Alternator capacity 14.5V,120 Amp 14.5 V, 110 Amp Battery 12V, 50Ah 12V, 44Ah Main chassis dimension (in mm) Wheel base 2450 Track front 1400 Track rear 1420 Overall length 3992 Overall height 1537 Max. Width 1677 Ground clearance 165 Performance Max. Speed 150 Kmph 160 Kmph Max. Recom- mended gradability 14 deg Minimum — Turning 10.1m Circle Dia. 175  TECHNICAL INFORMATION Parameter Minimum Turning Clearance circle Dia. Diesel | Petrol 11m Weight (in kg) Gross vehicle weight 1485 XE, 1500 XE(O) 1490 XM, 1505 XM(O) 1510 XT, 1525 XT(O) 1525 XZ, 1530 XZ(O) 1510 BUZZ, 1530 XZ+ 1420 XE, 1435 XE(O) 1422 XM, 1437 XM(O) 1442 XT, 1457 XT(O) 1457 XZ, 1462 XZ(O) 1442 BUZZ, 1462 XZ+ 1454 XTA, 1454 XMA 1469 XZA, 1469 XZA+ Kerb

XT, 1457 XT(O) 1457 XZ, 1462 XZ(O) 1442 BUZZ, 1462 XZ+ 1454 XTA, 1454 XMA 1469 XZA, 1469 XZA+ Kerb weight (Unladen) 1085 XE, 1100 XE(O) 1090 XM, 1105 XM(O) 1110 XT, 1125 XT(O) 1125 XZ, 1130 XZ(O) 1110 BUZZ, 1130 XZ+ 1020 XE, 1035 XE(O) 1022 XM, 1037 XM(O) 1042 XT, 1057 XT(O) 1057 XZ, 1062 XZ(O) 1042 BUZZ, 1062 XZ+ 1054 XTA, 1054 XMA 1069 XZA, 1069 XZA+ 176  TECHNICAL INFORMATION Vehicle Dimensions 177  TECHNICAL INFORMATION Aggregate Identification Numbers VIN plate near front passenger seat Engine No. Plate - Diesel 178  Car Care Your vehicle is subjected to many exter- nal influences such as climate, road con- ditions, industrial pollution and proximity to the sea. These conditions demand regular care of the vehicle body. Dirt, in- sects, bird droppings, oil, grease, fuel and stone chippings should be removed as soon as possible. Washing Following these tips while washing your vehicle. Hand wash: 1. Always wash your vehicle in shade and the surface is at room tempera- ture. 2. Wash

Hand wash: 1. Always wash your vehicle in shade and the surface is at room tempera- ture. 2. Wash with mild vehicle wash soap like ‘Car Shampoo’ and use a soft bristle brush, sponge or soft cloth and rinse it frequently while washing to avoid scratches. 3. To avoid scratches, please wear soft gloves. Remove finger rings, nails, wristwatch while washing. CAR CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES 4. To remove stubborn stains and con- taminants like tar, use turpentine or cleaners like ‘Stain remover’, which are safe for, paint surfaces. 5. Avoid substances like petrol, diesel, kerosene, benzene, thinner or other solvents that cause damage to paint. 6. Dry your vehicle thoroughly to pre- vent any damp spots. 7. Rinse all surfaces thoroughly to pre- vent any traces of soap and other cleaners as this may lead to the for- mation of stains on the painted sur- face later. WARNING Do not direct high-pressure washer fluid/ water jets (Pressure above 0.5 Bar) at electrical devices and con- necter during

washer fluid/ water jets (Pressure above 0.5 Bar) at electrical devices and con- necter during washing. This is to pre- vent malfunction / failure of electri- cal system due to water ingress. After drying the vehicle, inspect it for chips and scratches that could allow cor- rosion to start. Apply touch up paint where necessary. Cleaning of Carpets Vacuum clean the carpet regularly to re- move dirt. Dirt will make the carpet wear out faster. Periodically shampoo the car- pet to keep it looking new. Use carpet cleaners (preferably foam type). Follow the instructions that come with the cleaner. Apply it with a sponge or soft brush. Keep the carpeting as dry as possible by not adding water to the foam. NOTE Avoid wiping of painted surface in dry condition as it may leave scratches on the painted surface. 179  CAR CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES Cleaning of Windows, Front and Rear Glasses Clean the windows inside and outside with commercially available glass clean- ers. This will remove the

the windows inside and outside with commercially available glass clean- ers. This will remove the haze that builds up on the inside of windows. Use a soft cloth or paper towels to clean all glass and plastic surfaces. FAST TAG FAST TAG is pasted on front windshield from the inside. It enables Electronic toll collection. => NITE NCTE TEE Prstag Do not attempt to rip or tamper the tag. It will disable the functionality of the tag. 180 Waxing Waxing and polishing is recommended to maintain the gloss and wet-look ap- pearance of your paint finish. 1. Use good quality polish and wax for your vehicle. 2. Re-wax your vehicle when the water does not slip off the surface but col- lects over the surface in patches. Polishing Polishes and cleaners can restore shine to the painted surface that has oxidized and become dull. They normally contain mild abrasives and solvents that remove the top layer of the finish coat. Polish your vehicle, if the finish does not regain its original shine after

of the finish coat. Polish your vehicle, if the finish does not regain its original shine after using wax. Interior fabric cleaning tips 1. Stains should be treated immedi- ately. If left for a long time, they can leave a permanent mark. 2. Cleaning the stains immediately is important especially for stains which contain artificial colors in the stain creating liquid or semisolid sub- stance. The colorant may leave a stain if kept for longer time. 3. Stain should not be removed by rub- bing. As far as possible, try to blot or lift the stain with cloth or plastic spat- ula and then clean the remaining stain with cloth or sponge. 4. If the stain has dried, then gently brush off the material and then press with damp cloth or sponge till it dis- appears. 5. Do not use household detergents to clean the fabric. 6. Always use clean cotton cloth for cleaning.  Paint Care Following guidelines will help you to pro- tect your Vehicle from corrosion effec- tively. Proper cleaning In order to

will help you to pro- tect your Vehicle from corrosion effec- tively. Proper cleaning In order to protect your vehicle from cor- rosion it is recommended that you wash your vehicle thoroughly and frequently in case: There is a heavy accumulation of dirt and mud especially on the under- body. It is driven in areas having high at- mospheric pollution due to smoke, soot, dust, iron dust and other chem- ical pollutants. It is driven in coastal areas. The underbody must be thoroughly pressure washed after every three months. In addition to regularly washing your car, the following precautions need to be taken. CAR CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES Periodic Inspection Regularly inspect your vehicle for any damage in the paint film such as deep scratches and immediately get them repaired from an authorized service outlet, as these defects tend to accelerate corrosion. Inspect mud liners for damages. Keep all drain holes clear from clog- ging. Proper Parking Always park your vehicle in shade to

Keep all drain holes clear from clog- ging. Proper Parking Always park your vehicle in shade to protect it from harsh sunlight or in a well-ventilated garage so that there is no dampness on any part of the ve- hicle. Wiper care To prevent damage to the wipers or windshield, do not operate the wip- ers when the windshield is dry. To prevent damage to the wiper arms and other components, do not at- tempt to move the wipers manually. 181  CAR CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES Extended Warranty TATA MOTORS recommends the purchase of its extended warranty program. Coverage - Mechanical + Electrical Benefits e Insures you against unforeseen break down repair bills. e Documentation is simple and hassle free. e Near cashless & speedy claim Term 24 + 12 months or 75,000 kms whichever occurs first OR 24 + 24 months or 1,00,000 kms whichever occurs first ‘TATA MOTORS | SERVICE BEST VALUE ——— Extended Warranty is available in the dealership from where you have purchased your vehicle. We strongly

Warranty is available in the dealership from where you have purchased your vehicle. We strongly recommend purchase of Extended Warranty at time of purchase of your vehicle. Extended Warranty can be availed till 421 days from date of purchase of vehicle. The Dealer Service Marketing Executive shall explain to you the Terms and conditions, Coverage and Owner’s respon- sibility. Extended Warranty Booklet & Cover Note The Extended Warranty booklet and cover note is the basis of the contract between TATA MOTORS LIMITED and the Owner of the vehicle shown on the Extended Warranty booklet. The Customer is to retain this booklet and the same to be produced to the dealer while claiming benefit s under Extended Warranty. 182  CAR CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES Note e The 12 or 24 months extended warranty does not follow the 24 months Manufacturer's warranty. e The extended warranty comes into force once the manufacturer’s warranty expires e.g. after 24 Months. e It is more restrictive as by the

once the manufacturer’s warranty expires e.g. after 24 Months. e It is more restrictive as by the time it comes into force the vehicle is already 24 months old. What is covered? e Mechanical / Electrical break down as defined in this warranty and confirmed by the dealer within the stipulated terms and conditions. e TATA MOTORS dealer shall either repair or replace any part found to be defective with a new part or an equivalent at no cost to the owner for parts or labour. e Such defective parts which have been replaced will become property of TATA MOTORS LIMITED. e Comprehensive list of parts covered is mentioned in the page 9-12 of the Extended Warranty Booklet. What is not covered? Please refer the Extended Warranty Booklet for details of the exclusion list. Owner’s Responsibility: e Proper use, maintenance and care of the vehicle in accordance with the instructions contained in the Owner’s Manual and Service Booklet. The records of the same to be ensured in Owner’s Manual. e

the Owner’s Manual and Service Booklet. The records of the same to be ensured in Owner’s Manual. e Retention of maintenance service bills. | / We have been explained the Terms and conditions, Coverage and Owner's responsibility by the Dealer Service Marketing Executive. oO | wish to avail / O Do not wish to avail extended warrant policy. Customer’s Signature Dealer’s Signature 183  CAR CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES Value Added Services Why are Corrosion Protection Waxes neces- sary? — WURTH BARDAHL AUt@-6 a e Corrosion is the most important factor when we talk about the vehicle life. If you treat your car you can prolong the life. e Itis very dangerous to drive around in a corroded vehicle. e The corrosion creeps onto the vehicle from the inside and from the outside. The most dangerous kind of corrosion is often not discovered until it is too late. Corrosion is caused by: Water / salt water acid rain & atmospheric fallouts. CAR CARE Critical areas are: Cavities: joints, crevices, spot

acid rain & atmospheric fallouts. CAR CARE Critical areas are: Cavities: joints, crevices, spot welds, underbody Benefits of Anti - Rust treatment: e A professionally applied range of world class products offering real value to the new and used vehicle customer. e The treatment has been developed to withstand the harshest environmental and climatic conditions (rust. Pollutants, stone and gravel impact, etc.) e Insulate cabin space from external noises. e Expensive tin work and Denting / Painting avoided. e Higher resale value for the vehicle. e Higher safety - uncorroded vehicle e 10 free checkups available 184  CAR CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES TATA MOTORS has tied up with M/s Wurth, M/s Autokrom, M/s 3M India Ltd & M/s Bardahl for these world class treatment at affordable prices. These treatments are available in all authorized workshops. The Dealer Service Marketing Executive will explain to you the benefits and terms and conditions of this treatment. | /We have been explained the

to you the benefits and terms and conditions of this treatment. | /We have been explained the Benefits, Terms and conditions and the prices of these treatments by the Dealer Service Marketing Executive. O | wish to avail / oO Do not wish to avail extended warrant policy. Customer’s Signature Dealer’s Signature 185  CAR CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES Vehicle Exterior Enrichment Ee] == ey WURTH Why vehicles are painted? e For Corrosion protection of the metal surfaces. ‘ e Ease of application from other corrosion protection treatments. Auta ™ e Cheaper than other corrosion protection methods eg. Galvanizing, ano- ron dizing. e Fordecoration and identification. CAR CARE Various Environmental Hazards affecting paints Environmental hazards: destroy your vehicle's finish. Even as your new vehicle rolls off the assembly line, the paint is not protected. The enemy Ultraviolet Rays, Pollution, Tree Sap, Bird Droppings, Car Wash Chemicals, Road Salt, Acid Rain. Benefits: Vehicle Exterior

Tree Sap, Bird Droppings, Car Wash Chemicals, Road Salt, Acid Rain. Benefits: Vehicle Exterior Enrichment e Removal of medium scratches, orange peel, oxidation, dust nibs etc. & swirl marks from painted surface. e Restoration of original gloss levels, UV protection after gloss is restored. e Cleaning & dressing of tyres, Bumpers & all exterior plastic moldings/trims. TATA MOTORS has tied up with M/s Autokrom, M/s 3M & M/s Wurth for this world class treatment at affordable prices. This treatment is available in all authorized workshops. The Dealer Service Marketing Executive will explain to you the benefits and terms and conditions of this treatment. 186  CAR CARE AND VALUE ADDED SERVICES Vehicle Interior Enrichment Why protect your new car’s fabric interior? e Someone will soil your vehicle's fabric carpet or seats. e Asignificant detractor from your vehicle's resale value. e Apermanent stain on your vehicle's interior fabric. The enemy: Drink Spills - Food Stains - Mud - Ultraviolet

stain on your vehicle's interior fabric. The enemy: Drink Spills - Food Stains - Mud - Ultraviolet Rays Pets - Traffic Benefits: Vehicle Interior Enrichment e Removal of medium stains and dirt from all interior parts of the car i.e., carpet, upholstery and roof lining. e Cleaning of windshield and all windows (inside and outside) e Dressing of all internal plastics (eg: door pad trims) and rubber parts. e The treatment involves cleaning and dressing of all parts of the exposed interiors. e Specialised protection for seat fabric from liquid spills. TATA MOTORS has tied up with M/s Wurth and M/s Autokrom for this world class treatment at affordable prices. This treatment is available in all authorized workshops. The Dealer Service Marketing Executive will explain to you the benefits and terms and conditions of this treatment. | / We have been explained the Terms and conditions, Coverage and Owner’s responsibility by the Dealer Service Marketing Executive. O | wish to avail / O Do not

and Owner’s responsibility by the Dealer Service Marketing Executive. O | wish to avail / O Do not wish to avail extended warrant policy. Customer’s Signature Dealer’s Signature 187  188  We WARRANT each TATA TIGOR vehicle and parts thereof manufactured by us to be free from defect in material and workmanship subject to the following terms and conditions: 1. This warranty shall be for a period of 24 months from the date of sale of the car or a mileage of 75,000 Kms which- ever occurs earlier. 2. Our obligation under this warranty shall be limited to repair- ing or replacing, free of charge, such parts of the car which, in our opinion, are defective, on the car being brought to us or to our dealers within the period. The parts so repaired or replaced shall also be warranted for quality and workman- ship but such warranty shall be co-terminus with this origi- nal warranty. 3. Any part which is found to be defective and is replaced by us under the warranty shall be our property. 4. As

is found to be defective and is replaced by us under the warranty shall be our property. 4. As for such parts as Tyres, Batteries, Audio and / or Video equipment (if any), etc. not manufactured by us but sup- plied by other parties, this warranty shall not apply, but buy- ers of the car shall be entitled to, so far as permissible by law, all such rights as we may have against such parties under their warranties in respect of such parts. 5. This warranty shall not apply if the car or any part thereof is repaired or altered otherwise than in accordance with our standard repair procedure or by any person other than from our sales or service establishments, our authorized deal- ers, service centres or service points in any way so as, in WARRANTY - TERMS AND CONDITIONS our judgment which shall be final and binding, to affect its reliability, nor shall it apply if, in our opinion which shall be final and binding, the car is subjected to misuse, negli- gence, improper or inadequate

shall be final and binding, the car is subjected to misuse, negli- gence, improper or inadequate maintenance or accident or loading in excess of such carrying capacity as certified by us, or such services as prescribed in our Owner's Manual are not carried out by the buyer through our sales or service establishments, our authorized dealers, service centres or service points. This warranty shall not apply to the replacement of nor- mal wear parts, including without limitation, spark plugs, drive belts, hoses, wiper blades, fuses, clutch disc, brake shoes, brake pads, cables and all rubber parts (except oil seal and glass run). This warranty shall not cover any inherent normal deterio- ration of the car or any of its parts arising from the actual use of the car or any damage due to negligent or improper operation or storage of the car. This warranty shall not apply to normal maintenance ser- vices like oils & fluid changes, head lamps focusing, fas- tener retightening, wheel balancing

ser- vices like oils & fluid changes, head lamps focusing, fas- tener retightening, wheel balancing and alignment, tyre ro- tation, adjustment of valve clearance, fuel timing, ignition timing and consumables like bulbs, fuel, air & oil filters and gas leaks in case of air conditioned cars. This warranty shall not apply to any damage or deteriora- tion caused by environmental pollution or bird droppings. Slight irregularities not recognized as affecting the function 189  WARRANTY - TERMS AND CONDITIONS 10. 11. 12. 13. or quality of the vehicle or parts, such as slight noise or vi- bration, defects appearing only under particular or irregular operations are items considered characteristics of the ve- hicle. This warranty shall be null and void if the car is subjected to abnormal use such as rallying, racing or participation in any other competitive sport. This warranty shall not apply to any repair or replacements as a result of accident or col- lision. This warranty is expressly in

to any repair or replacements as a result of accident or col- lision. This warranty is expressly in lieu of all warranties, whether by law or otherwise, expressed or implied, and all other ob- ligations or liabilities on our part and we neither assume, nor authorize any person to assume on our behalf, any other liability arising from the sale of the car or any agree- ment in relation thereto. The buyer shall have no other rights except those set out above and have, in particular, no right to repudiate the sale, or any agreement or to claim any reduction in the purchase price of the car, or to demand any damages or compensa- tion for losses, incidental or indirect, or inconvenience or consequential damages, loss of car, or loss of time, or oth- erwise, incurred or accrued. Any claim arising from this warranty shall be recognized only if it is notified in writing to us or to our authorized dealer without any delay soon after such defects as cov- ered & ascertained under this warranty.

dealer without any delay soon after such defects as cov- ered & ascertained under this warranty. 190 14. 15. This warranty is fully transferable to subsequent vehi- cle owner. Only unexpired remaining period of war- ranty applies. We reserve our rights to make any change or modification in design of the car or its parts or to introduce any improve- ment therein or to incorporate in the car any additional part or accessory at any time without incurring any obligation to incorporate the same in the cars previously sold.  TATA MOTORS LTD. is committed to produce vehicles using en- vironmentally sustainable technology. A number of features have been incorporated in TATA MOTORS passenger vehicles which have been designed to ensure environmental compati- bility throughout the life cycle of the vehicle. We would like to inform you that your vehicle meets emission norms and this is being regularly validated at the manufacturing stages. As a user you too can protect the environment by

regularly validated at the manufacturing stages. As a user you too can protect the environment by operating your vehicle in a proactive manner. A lot depends on your driv- ing style and the way you maintain your vehicle. We have given a few tips for your guidance. Driving Avoid frequent and violent acceleration. Do not carry any unnecessary weight in the vehicle as it overloads the engine. Avoid using devices requiring high power consumption during slow city traffic condition. Monitor the vehicle’s fuel consumption regularly and if showing rising trend get the car immediately attended at the Company’s Authorised Service Outlets. > Switch off the engine during long stops at traffic jams or signals. If you need to keep the engine running, avoid un- necessary revving it up or stopping and starting. > Itis not necessary to rev up the engine before turning it off as it unnecessarily burns the fuel. Vv Vv ENVIRONMENT SAFETY > Shift to higher gears as soon as it is possible. Use each gear up

fuel. Vv Vv ENVIRONMENT SAFETY > Shift to higher gears as soon as it is possible. Use each gear up to 2/3rd of its maximum engine speed. > Achart indicating gear shifting speeds is given in this book. Maintenance > Ensure that recommended maintenance is carried out on the vehicle regularly at the Authorised Service Outlets. > Assoonas you see any leakages of oil or fuel in the vehicle we recommend to get it attended immediately. > Use only recommended grades and specified quantity of lubricants. Get your vehicle checked for emission periodically by an au- thorised dealer. Ensure that fuel filter, oil filter and breather are checked periodically and replaced, if required, as recommended by TATA MOTORS. > Do not pour used oils or coolants into the sewage drains, garden soil or open streams. Dispose the used filters and batteries in compliance with the current legislation. Do not allow unauthorized person to tamper with engine settings or to carry modifications on the vehicle. Never

unauthorized person to tamper with engine settings or to carry modifications on the vehicle. Never allow the vehicle to run out of fuel. Parts like brake liners, clutch discs should be vacuum cleaned. Do not use compressed air for cleaning these parts which may spread dust in the atmosphere. Vv Vv Vv Vv 191  ENVIRONMENT SAFETY While carrying out servicing or repairs of your vehicle, you should pay keen attention to some of the important engine aggregates and wiring harness which greatly affect emis- sion. These components are: 1. Fuel injection equipment’s - pump, rail, injectors, nozzles and high pressure pipes. 2. Air Intake & Exhaust system, especially for leakages. 3. Cylinder head for valve leakage. 4. Al filters such as air, oil and fuel filters (check periodi- cally). 5. Turbocharger. 6. Electrical connections. 7. If the ‘Service’ lamp continuously glows, please take the vehicle to a TATA MOTORS authorized service outlet. 8. Catalytic Converter. 9. EMS wiring harness i.e.

to a TATA MOTORS authorized service outlet. 8. Catalytic Converter. 9. EMS wiring harness i.e. electrical connections to all sen- sors and actuators. This Owner’s manual contains further information on driving precautions and maintenance care leading to environment protection. Please familiarize yourself with these aspects be- fore driving. 192

